Makale Başlığı: INVESTIGATION OF THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN RENEWABLE ENERGY AND AIR POLLUTION USING A MACHINE LEARNING ALGORITHM
Özet: Today, renewable energy sources have become very important. According to some predicted data, the rate of solar energy usage will increase instead of conventional energy by 2025. It is known that environmental factors are also effective in the loss of solar power plants. Air pollution can be measured with different parameters. Some of these parameters are dust emission and sulfur. PM10 stands for particulate matter and SO2 stands for sulfur dioxide.In particular, the extent to which air pollution affects solar energy efficiency has been the subject of research. The presence of air pollution can be measured by various parameters. Some of these parameters are dust emission and sulfur. PM10  refers to dust particles formed in the atmosphere at a size of 10 microns, and SO2 refers to harmful gases formed in the air as a result of fossil fuels. In this study; the relationship between the daily electric energy values obtained from a solar power plant located in Adıyaman province and PM10 and SO2 air pollution parameters measured daily was investigated by decision trees regression method. In the developed model, PM10, SO2, PM10Total, SO2 Total, PM10 Monthly Average and SO2 Monthly Average were used as inputs, and daily generated electric power was employed as output. The data were for 2018. In the regression analysis, a model relationship was tried to be established between air pollution and electricity energy produced. In the study, the correlation coefficient was 0.81; the mean absolute error was 665 kW, and the root mean square error was 852 kW. As a result, in this study, a significant but not much relationship between air pollution and energy efficiency obtained from the solar power plant has been demonstrated.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zihni Alp ÇEVİK', 'Abdurrahman ÖZBEYAZ', 'Yavuz DEMİRCİ']
Yayın Yılı: 3 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Yekarum
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yekarum/issue/71650/1143341
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2536576
