Makale Başlığı: The monocyte/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio in patients with primary hypolipoproteinemia
Özet: Aim: Hypolipoproteinemia is low blood lipid levels in adults. Primary hypolipoproteinemia due to genetic mutations is a rare condition. Studies to demonstrate the clinical significance of hypolipoproteinemia are limited. It was aimed to evaluate the clinical and laboratory characteristics of patients with primary hypolipoproteinemia and the monocyte/high-density lipoprotein (HDL) ratio in this study. Material and Method: Eight patients with primary hypolipoproteinemia and twelve healthy control subjects were compared in terms of lipid profiles, monocyte/HDL ratios, hemogram, acute phase response tests, and liver tests. Results: Triglycerides (TG), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), and total cholesterol (TC) levels were found to be significantly lower in the patient group than in the control group (p=0.037 and <0.001 for LDL and TC both, respectively). There was no difference between the groups in terms of HDL levels. Lipoprotein (a) (Lp(a)) levels were found to be significantly lower in the patient group compared to the control group (p=0.006). Absolute monocyte count (AMC) was found to be significantly higher in the patient group than in the control group (p=0.002). Monocyte/HDL ratios (MHR) were significantly higher in the patient group than in the control group (p=0.016). There was a negative correlation between MHR and LDL (p=0.001). Conclusion: AMC and MHR were found higher in patients with primary hypolipoproteinemia than in the healthy control group in this study. Monocytes are involved in all stages of the progression of atherosclerotic disease. HDL is known to have a protective role in atherosclerotic diseases with its anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects. MHR, which is an index that combines both, has been shown to be a prognostic marker in cardiovascular diseases. This study is the first to investigate MHR in primary hypolipoproteinemia patients. Despite the small sample size and the heterogeneous nature of the patients included high AMC and MHR levels are important findings of the current study. Although patients with hypolipoproteinemia are attributed to a low risk for atherosclerotic diseases, high AMC and MHR are a warning that these patients should be followed carefully due to changes in lipid redistribution in terms of the risk of atherosclerotic disease.
Yazar isimleri: ['Melisa ŞAHİN TEKİN']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Medicine and Palliative Care
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jompac/issue/72702/1162205
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2597009
