Makale Başlığı: Effects of desertification on the ecosystem and the importance of sustainable agriculture in reversing desertification
Özet: Desertification conceptually refers to a process. With the interaction of physical, biological, political, social, cultural and economic reasons; it is a degradation process that starts with the loss of vegetation of the soil as a result of faulty human activities and climatic effects and continues with the loss of fauna, microorganisms and organic matter, and clay, silt and sand fractions are exposed by breaking down soil aggregates. When a certain area is left without vegetation, actually a wound is opened in the soil and the desertification process begins in that area. Greatest damage to the soil has been done through agriculture. If radical changes are made in agricultural activities, the soil can be fixed. When the matter is the health of our planet, it becomes necessary. Sustainable agriculture should be adopted and expanded instead of conventional agriculture urgently. Sustainable agriculture includes protection and observance of natural elements in all agricultural activities. It is the unique solution we should restore the agricultural lands that are on the verge of extinction, to ensure their continuity and make them sustainable. Sustainable agriculture, on the one hand, makes use of soil crops by producing, on the other hand, respecting the natural cycles in the ecosystem and the environment, and recognizing the law of all beings that make up nature. It is to be a part of the existing system with all its elements, instead of dominating and managing the natural elements while producing. In this study, the subject of desertification is examined, it is revealed how desertification itself is a great danger for our planet and humanity, how it triggers many natural disasters and disasters, and the importance of sustainable agriculture and its necessity to prevent global disasters are tried to be emphasized.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kerim ÖZYOL']
Yayın Yılı: 13 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Anadolu Orman Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ajfr/issue/70262/1060466
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2202527
