Makale Başlığı: InterperationNTERPRETATION OF HZ. MÛSÂ AND PLOT OF FATE IN THE WORKS OF CHINGHIZ AITMATOV
Özet: Chinghiz Aitmatov succeeded to be one of the best writers of the world with his mastership in writing, extraordinary fiction writing ability in his narration and symbolized narration. His works have been translated into hundred ninety four languages. One of the main aspects that make Aitmatov’s fictions out of the ordinary is his handling the concept of “fate”, which we can call “measure or order” and which is the order of creation or the harmony of highly interrelated events in the universe, with a very subtle skill. He intersected the destinies of the heroes events, the creaturesof the nature and animals in his novels skillfully. The fates in question sometimes intersect in human-nature and human-animal contexts, which are sometimes embellished in the triangle of human-animal-nature, and in some cases nature-animal. One of the main purposes of revealing the intersections here may be the concern of bringing what the author wantsto explain in his symbolic narration to the understanding of the reader, as well as the purpose of revealing the wisdom of the creation in the universe and the events taking place accordingly. In addition to these points, it is seen that Aitmatov used the aforementioned destinies as an implicit system criticism tool. In this context, the main framework of the study will be to bring attention to the aforementioned intersections of fate. In this way, we believe that it will be helpful to understand the feature of Aitmatov’s authorship ability. In this study, Aitmatov, dealing with thefunctioning of the universe and its disruptive elements will be discussed within the framework of the “track of destiny” and with a glance over the parable between the Prophet Moses and St. Khidr.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 17 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Dünyası Dil ve Edebiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tdded/issue/73108/1193718
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2727405
