Makale Başlığı: MEHMET ÂKİF’İN TOPLUMUN DEĞİŞİM VE GELİŞİMİNE YÖNELİK FIKIH ANLAYIŞI
Özet: Mehmet Akif Ersoy is one of the most important figures who has guided the change and development of the society in which he has lived for a long time by influencing the broad masses with both his works and ideas in our history of culture and civilization. He was interested in the practical and fiqh dimension rather than the theoretical dimension of religion. Akif recommends that the current understanding of religion and science be corrected in the light of reason based directly on the Qur’an, Sunnah and Salaf ulama in order to eliminate the scientific and technological decline experienced in the entire Islamic world. He asserted that, for the renewel and development of society, a person should strive to achieve the science and technology brought by the era, taking into account his religious and moral values. He was of the opinion that the world and the hereafter exist in a balance, that it would be wrong to sacrifice one for the other. Akif’s understanding of fiqh coincides with the integrity of religion-morality-law, as well as the integrity of the world-hereafter, which is one of the characteristic features of the science of fiqh. According to him, in order to achieve the desired change and development in society and have the fiqh to comply with the conditions of the time, it is utmost necessary to train clergy who correctly know and apply fiqh. He believed that the social problems caused by religion are not caused by the theory of religion, but by the religious philosophy, in other words, by the wrong perception of religion/fiqh by Muslims. Akif believes that society misunderstands many religious/fiqh concepts and principles. Unfortunately, this opinion is also an undeniable reality today.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayten EROL']
Yayın Yılı: 8 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Elektronik Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/esosder/issue/70796/1091249
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2323765
