Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Structured Material Supported Collaborative Coding Workshops in Preschool Education on Scientific Process Skills
Özet: The aim of this study is to determine the effect of coding workshop activities supported by cooperative method and structured material on the development of scientific process skills of preschool children. In the research, pretest-posttest quasi-experimental design with control group was used. The implementation was carried out for four weeks, with two activity hours a week, a total of 16 activity hours. The study group consists of 41 children aged 60-72 months in two different branches of a kindergarten located in the city center of Sivas in the spring term of the 2021-2022 academic year. Coding activities planned in accordance with the cooperative method were used in the experimental group of the study, and the current learning method was used in the control group. The research data were obtained by applying the "Preschool Term Scientific Process Skill Test". Frequency and percentage analysis of participants' demographic information; in the data obtained from the scale, diagnostic statistics, dependent groups t test, independent groups t test were used. According to the findings obtained in the research; in the pre-test-post-test comparison of the experimental and control groups, it was determined that there was a significant difference in the experimental group, but not in the control group. It was determined that there was a significant difference in favor of the experimental group in the post-test comparison of the research groups. In the post-test-permanence test comparisons of the experimental and control groups, it was determined that there was a significant difference in the scores of the experimental group, but no significant difference in the scores of the control group. In the permanence test comparison of the research groups, it was determined that there was a significant difference in favor of the experimental group.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yrd. Doç. Dr. Sebahattin KARTAL', 'Aysel ARSLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 19 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Sivas Cumhuriyet Üniversitesi Eğitim Bilimleri Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cebed/issue/73073/1118610
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2436289
