Makale Başlığı: THE EFFECTS OF 1-METHYLCYLOPROPANE AND MODIFIED ATMOSPHERE PACKAGING ON STORAGE QUALITY OF ANET 30 PEACH VARIETY
Özet: This study was carried out in the cold research rooms of Çanakkale Onsekiz Mart University, Faculty of Agriculture, Department of Horticulture. The fruits of the ANET 30 peach variety that produced Anadolu Etap Penkon Food and Agriculture Products Industry and Trade. Inc. were used. The fruits that ripened very late and were harvested on 18 October 2019 were brought to the department. After harvest, the fruits were divided into 4 groups and 1-methylcyclopropane (1-MCP) at a dose of 625 ppb was applied to some of the fruits, and half of the treated fruits were used for modified atmosphere packaging (MAP) application in Xtend® bags. Half of the untreated fruits were reserved as MAP only and the other half as control. All applications were stored at 0±1°C temperature and 90±5% relative humidity conditions for 60 days, and the change in quality characteristics was determined at 20-day intervals. As a result, ANET 30 peach variety could be stored in normal cold stores for a maximum of 25-30 days. However, 1-MCP application alone has not been successful. Although, positive results were obtained in terms of some properties, with a general evaluation, 1-MCP application could only extend the storage for 5-7 days. On the other hand, only MAP and 1-MCP were applied and fruits stored in MAP gave the best results in this study. In these applications, many quality characteristics such as color change and hardness of fruits were better preserved. Fungal infections were detected at a low rate in these applications. It was concluded that with both applications, ANET 30 peach variety fruits could be stored for 45-50 days with 10-15% weight loss under these conditions by taking measures to reduce fungal decay and using MAP.
Yazar isimleri: ['Prof. Dr. Kenan KAYNAŞ', 'Hatice Nihan ÇİFTCİ']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: ÇOMÜ Ziraat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/comuagri/issue/71399/1075747
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2262130
