Makale Başlığı: Relationship of Traffic Accidents Occurring in Antalya City with Daily Activity Areas
Özet: Due to the increase in the population in Turkey, there is an increase in the number of vehicles. Depending on the increase in the number of vehicles, it causes an increase in problems and traffic accidents in urban transportation. The study was carried out to reveal and determine the relationship between traffic accidents and daily activity areas. Five central districts of Antalya were selected as the study area. Among the reasons for choosing the five central districts of the study area, the density of traffic accidents, the density of activity areas and the distribution of a large proportion of the population in this area. The research includes data obtained from traffic accident reports between 2015-2019. Two different analyzes were carried out in the study. Analyzes performed are enhanced buffer analysis and optimized hotspot analysis. The analyzes are to identify the dense areas where traffic accidents occur and to determine the relationship between daily activity areas. ArcGIS 10.8 software was used to implement the analyses. An improved buffer analysis tool, which is a unique method model, was produced using ArcGIS software. By using the developed buffer analysis method, the relationship between traffic accidents in the intersection areas of shopping-education, transportation-education and transportation-shopping areas was examined. Using the optimized analysis method, hot spot analyzes of shopping-education, transportation-shopping and transportation-education intersection areas were carried out. In the final analysis, traffic accidents occurring within 150 meters of transportation, shopping, education, accommodation and food and beverage areas were examined. As a result of the study, it has been determined that traffic accidents occur mostly in the intersection areas of transportation and shopping areas among the daily activity areas.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hüseyin ZERENOĞLU', 'Tamer ÖZLÜ', 'Himmet HAYBAT']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Mavi Atlas
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gumusmaviatlas/issue/73222/1131907
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2491264
