Makale Başlığı: Anti-Vaccination and COVID-19 Vaccine Hesitancy among Adolescents
Özet: Aim: The emergence of COVID-19 vaccines in the pandemic has led to discussions about vaccine hesitancy in the general population. This study, it was aimed to determine the anti-vaccination and COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy levels in a sample of adolescents.Material and Method: This is a cross-sectional study. It was conducted with 303 individuals aged between 15-18 years who received to the pediatric outpatient clinic between October and November 2021. Study data were collected using a structured questionnaire including the ‘Vaccine Hesitancy Scale’ and ‘Vaccine Hesitancy in Pandemics scale.’ In the analysis of the relations between the variables, the t-tests in independent groups, the One-way Anova test and the Pearson correlation test were applied.Results: 43.5% of the participants and 85.6% of the parents were vaccinated. Among unvaccinated individuals, 27.4% were not willing to get vaccinated. Even if vaccination were compulsory, 22.2% would still refuse to get vaccinated. 28.7% stated that they were affected by anti-vaccination rhetoric. The participants’ mean scores were 30.2±4.8 and 48.1±17.0 on the scales. No significant difference was found between females and males. In low-income groups, vaccine hesitancy levels were higher than in those with higher income. The vaccine hesitancy level in Pandemics was significantly lower in those who suffered from Covid-19. The vaccine hesitancy levels were significantly lower in those whose parents were vaccinated. The vaccine hesitancy levels were significantly higher in those informed about vaccines from social media.Conclusion: Knowledge of the risks and complications of diseases and information disseminated on social media platforms are factors that significantly influence attitudes towards vaccination.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Emin PARLAK', 'Dilek ENER']
Yayın Yılı: 22 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Medical Records
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/medr/issue/72317/1070296
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2241113
