Makale Başlığı: EXAMINATION OF MIGRATION EXPERIENCES, EXPECTATIONS AND FUTURE PLANS OF REFUGEES AND ASYLUM-SEEKERS IN TURKEY
Özet: ABSTRACTObjectives: This study was conducted to examine the experiences, expectations and future plans of refugees and asylum seekers in the migration process.Methods: The study was conducted with 18 refugees and asylum seekers living in Izmir between 15.01.2020 and 20.03.2020 and who agreed to participate in the study. The study was conducted using the phenomenological research design, which is one of the qualitative research designs. Data were collected by face-to-face in-depth interview technique using a semi-structured interview form created by the researcher. Each interview with the participants lasted 60-90 minutes. The interviews were recorded by taking notes by the researcher and then transferred to the computer environment. Colaizzi's phenomenological interpretation method was used in the evaluation of the data.Results: The participants of the study mostly talked about the difficulties they encountered and their asylum processes while describing their migration experiences. For this reason, the concepts of “sense of asylum and helplessness” have been determined as the main theme that defines the migration experiences of refugees and asylum seekers. All of the participants talked about feelings and thoughts including helplessness and asylum processes in their statements. In order to understand the difficulties faced by the participants during the migration process, it was tried to be understood by dividing the temporal sections before, during and after the migration. When the participants were asked about their future expectations and plans, they expressed that they experienced anxiety, fear and hopelessness. It was understood that the participants could not plan for their future, they hoped to settle in a third country, and very few of them accepted the situation they were in.Conclusion: In this study, the difficulties that refugees and asylum seekers face in Turkey; shelter, security, sexual violence, alienation and incompatibility, language, registration and identity, fear of being sent back to their country, health problems, inability to access health services, trying to illegally enter Greece for better conditions and being an unaccompanied child. Resettlement to a third country was the most expressed issue in the expectations and future plans of the participants of this study. The number of those who experience uncertainty and indecision and those who state that they cannot make a plan and try to spend their day is equal.Key words: refugee, asylum seeker, migration experiences, difficulties encountered, future plans
Yazar isimleri: ['Aysel BASMACI KAYA', 'Abdullah KARATAY']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Sosyal Politika ve Sosyal Hizmet Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/spshcd/issue/71000/1080580
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2280887
