Makale Başlığı: Socio-Economic Life and Religion in the Scope of Digital Developments: The Cryptocurrency Example
Özet: Socio-economic life may differ in terms of cultures and beliefs. Today, it is seen that it is impossible for socio-economic life not to be affected by the rapidly developing  digitalization. Digitalization proclaims its dominance in most areas of social life, but especially in economic fields its effect is thought to be more different because economic development is the basis of the digital development. Due to digital economic models based on informational, global and network organizations, people interact with more people than in traditional society. Thus, people contribute to the creation of a real competitive environment by participating in economic processes on a more comprehensive and egalitarian basis. Economic models supported by technological communication tools, e-mails, networks and innovative software are getting stronger day by day and spread to most areas of social life. The effect of digitalization on the economic field  prepares the ground for important discussions especially in the relationship between religion and economic life. New forms of shopping such as e-commerce and crypto money that emerged as a result of digital developments are closely related to the approach of religion to economic innovation. Should religion or religious people take a stand in the face of new economic models and crypto money developing in the digitalization environment? Has the sociological role of religion in socio-economic life changed with digitalization? What is the functional dimension of crypto money in the relationship between socio-economic life and religion? The answers to such questions are a matter of curiosity. In this study, research will be made within the framework of the problems whose answers are the subject of curiosity. The main purpose of this study is to reveal the equivalence of crypto money, one of the new economic models in social life, and its relationship with religion, which is human and social capital, in an environment where digitalization is rapidly developing. Methods used in this study are literature review, field research and interviews with people using cryptocurrency. According to the findings, it has been observed that people are exposed to religious concerns when using crypto money. There have even been those who think that the losses in cryptocurrencies are also related to ignoring religious sensitivities. As a result, crypto money will make its presence felt more and more in the new world order and this situation should be considered in terms of religious sociological dimensions. It is seen that it will be beneficial to develop the crypto money, which has emerged as a new generation money and has many types, in line with the general economic models and to be developed in a way that will eliminate the concerns of the religious in this context.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nihat OYMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: ATEBE
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/atebe/issue/71028/1020766
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2070219
