Makale Başlığı: Some Religious Practices in the Context of Urbanization and Religious-Cultural Change
Özet: Urbanization has greatly increased the speed and quality of social change. With the Industrial Revolution, cities became dense and crowded settlements by attracting the rural population. The new city dwellers experienced significant changes in the relations of production and consumption, their culture and the moral principles that bind them. Turkey started to experience these changes, which developed countries experienced right after the Industrial Revolution, as of the second half of the 20th century. There have been stable migration movements to big cities, especially Istanbul and Ankara. This has led to rapid population growth. Thus, different lifestyles, new human relations and cultures began to be seen in cities. Developments in communication tools have had a multiplier effect on change. All these had a significant impact on the religious institution, which is in close relationship with culture. This effect, which has many dimensions, was handled more specifically in our study. The effect of social and religious change experienced in the urbanization process on some religious practices is focused on in the context of religion-culture relationship. The study was carried out using the qualitative research method. Families who migrated from the Belenören village of Bursa to the city center were chosen as a sample. In order to monitor the urbanization process, a total of 42 people representing three generations of each family were interviewed. Semi-structured interview technique was used to collect the research data. The data obtained as a result of the interview were subjected to content analysis. On the other hand, the literature on the relationship between culture and religion-culture and urbanization has been reviewed. The research in your hand is shaped on the following three basic questions. 1) What is the relationship between religion and culture? 2) Does the change brought about by urbanization affect culture and religion? 3) Is the religious and cultural change experienced in the urbanization process reflected in the implementation of some religious practices? Within the scope of the study, many questions were asked to the participants, especially about belief and worship. Accordingly, it was seen that the participants gave more importance to fasting, sacrifice and mawlid practices than other religious practices. Each religious practice mentioned in the article is discussed under a separate heading. In particular, the importance given to these three practices was compared with the prayer situations of the participants. According to this, it has been observed that even the participants who do not put religion at the center of their daily lives and do not tend to perform religious practices fast to a large extent. The fact that some participants, who currently pray five times a day, state that they fast even when they do not pray and do not pay attention to some religious prohibitions, supports this opinion. As a result, the practice of fasting and the related month of Ramadan continue to be important for participants of all generations. The practice of sacrificing after fasting is discussed. The practice of sacrifice, which has an important place in many beliefs and cultures, is also attributed to the ancient Turkish beliefs and traditions. After the Turks became Muslims, this importance continued to exist within the limits set by Islam. The social enthusiasm and cooperation experienced on the occasion of Eid Qurban increased the importance attributed to the practice of sacrifice. All this causes participants from all three generations to attach great importance to the practice of sacrifice. Along with urbanization, there are also differentiations in the practice of sacrifice. Urbanized participants leave this job to professional butchers or organizations of non-governmental organizations and religious groups, instead of slaughtering their victims themselves. Finally, the practice of mawlid is discussed. Mevlid ceremonies have an important place in the religious and cultural life of the Turkish people. Interviews with the participants show that the importance attributed to the mawlid ceremonies has eroded significantly with the continuation of bread. It can be said that the participants who received formal religious education or were in contact with religious groups during the urbanization process did not attach importance to the practice of mawlid. On the other hand, mawlid ceremonies still have an important place in the religious lives of the participants who have a traditional religion perception and do not draw a religious profile and place religion at the center of their lives. As a result, the change and transformation caused by urbanization on lifestyle, mentality and culture also affects religious perception and lifestyle. The importance attributed by three different generations to the three religious practices and the difference in the way they practice these practices shows this effect.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammet Talha SAĞLAM']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kocatepe İslami İlimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kiid/issue/73811/1161040
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2592498
