Makale Başlığı: Outlook on Women Education in Turkey
Özet: Aim of the research to reveal is historical development of women education in Turkey. Problem statement of the study is "how is participation of women to education 1935-2012 period?" This study a qualitative research at descriptive survey model. Data collection realized by following stages of document review method. Document review is a kind of research includes analysing written materials contain knowledge about fact and facts targeted research and, it can be use as data collection method in qualitative research solitary or together other methods. Training of a woman means experience improvement of her children and husband in family. If mother has long term education level, male and female child gain more long term education. It will be difficult obtaining social prestige job of women in societies with short education time. Schooling of girls is different from European and Asian countries. It is not possible comparing of schooling of girls countries like Afghanistan, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal with Sweden, Norway, Germany and France. Important causes of low schooling of girls in our country in the early years of Republic are very low school numbers in the villages and dominated patriarchal culture. In Turkey, women education has placed importance from first years of Republic. For this purpose, primarily Public Schools made a big contributions. In Five-Year Development Plans and National Education Council, it was overemphasized specially women education. As a result of the efforts made, increasing of literacy rates are shown from tables. In light of this information, the most important question is person learn how to read and write did forget this information, if they didn't forget they read what kind books and are the person watching? Else they are taking their certificates in ceremonies with near protocol members and keep they their certificates as part of memories
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Haziran 2018
Dergi ismi: Akademia Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asj/issue/40224/479027
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/568045
