Makale Başlığı: The Meaning Attributed to Coffee and Coffee Consumption Habits in Turkey
Özet: Abstract With the increase in global interaction, different experience habits have started to form in drinks as well as in food. In addition to Turkish coffee, which has a deep-rooted culture from past to present, different types of coffee have started to be preferred in chain businesses. This preference situation continues to increase day by day and has been the subject of scientific researches on coffee consumption in recent years. A phenomenological approach was adopted in this study, which aimed to obtain detailed information about the profiles of individuals who consume coffee. Qualitative research design was used in the research, and semi-structured interview questions were asked to the participants as a data collection tool. Maximum variation sampling method, one of the non-probabilistic sampling methods, was used as the data collection method in the study. 30 female and 30 male coffee consumers were included in the study. In the semi-structured interview form, the participants; Questions about the meaning they attribute to coffee, coffee consumption preferences and coffee consumption routines are included. Content analysis was used in the data analysis process in the research, and coding and mapping were done in Maxqda statistics program. As a result of the research, it was determined that the participants mostly consumed coffee in chat environments, and they suggested rest and socialization as the reason for coffee consumption. It was concluded that the participants mostly consumed Turkish coffee and filter coffee, and they consumed their coffee mostly in chain enterprises. The most distinctive features that the participants look for in businesses that offer coffee are calmness, ambiance, and comfort. It is seen that the participants most frequently answered the question about who/with whom they consumed their coffee, with their friends or loved ones. Most of the participants; They stated that they do not know the characteristics of the bean used in the coffee they drink, that they will not make a special trip for coffee consumption, that they will not bear high costs for coffee, and that they are not open to new flavors in coffee. Finally, they stated that they consumed their coffee mostly in their leisure time.
Yazar isimleri: ['Faruk YÜKSEL', 'Murat GORAL', 'Üzeyir KEMENT', 'Çağkan GÜNER']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Ordu Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Sosyal Bilimler Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/odusobiad/issue/73138/1123290
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2455475
