Makale Başlığı: Instructors’ views on translation education in translation and interpreting programs: A new method suggestion for written translation education in Turkey
Özet: The phenomenon of translation has gained a scientific significance since the beginning of the 20th century. This is because the research area of translation studies field has expanded considerably and “translation education” has become one of the most studied areas. In the field of translation education, there are a variety of researches which deal with and reveal the problems encountered during translation education, the skills which should be possessed to make an accurate and effective translation and the methods to be followed while translating. Unlike the current studies, the aim of this study is to propose new method suggestions, based on the teaching methods of instructors, in addition to existing practices in translation education. For this purpose, the study group of the research consists of instructors who lecture written translation courses in English, French, Arabic and Persian Translation and Interpretation departments at Kırıkkale University during the Spring Semester 2021-2022. This sample was chosen for the purpose of creating a sample based on the maximum diversity and considering the current situation in its various dimensions. In this qualitative research, designed as a case study, first of all a questionnaire was conducted with the instructors and the data obtained through this questionnaire was analyzed by content analysis method. In consequence of the classifications and evaluations made, the necessity of updating the methods followed in written translation courses has emerged. Based on this requirement, the fundamental method suggestions that could be followed from the beginning to the end of the translation education are presented in three stages as “pre-lesson process”, “course process practices” and “extracurricular training activities”. These suggestions are given in detail under sub-headings with their justifications, and the ways that can be followed in the application of these methods are mentioned, as well. It is hoped that the study will contribute to the courses related to translation education given in translation departments in Turkey.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1190418
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2713679
