Makale Başlığı: Contribution of Graduate Education to the Professional Development of Science Teachers
Özet: The aim of this study is to reveal the views of science teachers about the contribution of graduateeducation to professional development. This research was conducted with the phenomenology ofqualitative research method. Maximum diversity and criterion sampling were used in determiningthe participants. Accordingly, the study was conducted with eight science teachers who are inpostgraduate education working in public secondary schools in Kayseri province in the 2020-2021 academic year. The data were collected through a semi-structured interview. Within thescope of the research, measures such as taking expert opinions on validity and reliability,recording the interviews, and giving the participant statements directly were taken. Contentanalysis was used in the analysis of the data. The audio recordings of the interview weretranscribed and the codes, categories, and themes were determined by taking the opinions of anexpert in qualitative research. The findings section includes direct quotations about theparticipants. The researchers concluded that teachers should receive postgraduate education andthat the courses and scientific studies in postgraduate education contribute to their professionallife. Moreover, researchers concluded that regulations should be made in compulsory andelective courses, foreign language and science-specific courses should be added with theincentives of the Ministry of Education in order to increase the efficiency of graduate education.In addition, the researchers concluded that teachers faced difficulties such as accessingdocuments, obtaining research permission, and insufficient financial situation in graduateeducation. Based on these results, the researchers gave suggestions such as working incooperation with the Ministry of National Education and universities in order to improvepostgraduate education, giving technological lessons by experts in the field and arranging classhours.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hasan GÖKÇE', 'Zeliha GÖKÇE', 'Nagehan DEMİR', 'Oktay BEKTAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Gazi Üniversitesi Gazi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gefad/issue/72357/997624
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1983150
