Makale Başlığı: Egyptology: The Missing Millennıum: Ancient Egypt In Medieval Arabic Writings
Özet: The Arab study of Ancient Egypt was the result of a universal understanding of history rather than the narrow purpose of verifying scriptures. They were critical of pre-Islamic written sources and did not accept even texts based on eyewitnesses uncritically. The Arabs' work, which included accurate descriptions of ancient monuments, was aimed at understanding their symbolic value and function. They noticed the relationship of the ancient Egyptian language to Coptic, the phonetic value of hieroglyphs, and that some were grouped like alphabets. Arab writers interested in deciphering Egyptian script were primarily alchemists and often Sufis. Access to Ancient Egyptian texts written in Demotic and Coptic – often in Greek translations – has helped Arab scholars better understand the complex nature of Egyptian religion.Studies of the origin of Sufism tend to concentrate on India and Persia, without mentioning the Egyptian sources. However, for example, Akhenaten's comparison of Suhrawardi- Illuminationism (Ishraqiyya) with sun hymns and studies on Mandaeanist/ Sabianist religious traditions in Iraq and Iran will shed light on the similarities between Egyptian religion and especially rituals and beliefs. Medieval writers tried to find common ground between Islamic teachings and Ancient Egyptian religion.Studies of Arabic philosophy can shed light on the problems of Ancient Egyptian philosophy. Because some basic concepts of Ancient Egyptian philosophy formed the basis of later Arab and Greek philosophy. Arab writers, like their classical predecessors, thought that this country had been home to science and wisdom since Hermes of Egypt, to whom they attributed the invention of writing, alchemy and medicine. They knew that the pharaoh Moses was dealing with was not a typical pharaoh but an exception. Pharaohs were portrayed as skilled rulers, knowledgeable and pious figures who cared for the welfare of the people.Cleopatra is described in Arabic sources as a philosopher and scholar, without reference to her physical attractiveness.Despite more than two centuries of domination of Egyptology by the Eurocentric view that ignored the thousand-year Arab contribution, archaeologists working in other parts of the Near East have also begun to realize the problem of Western dominance among them. But we also owe much to our Western colleagues for their invaluable contributions.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hayri KIRBAŞOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Şarkiyat
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sarkiat/issue/72894/1178264
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2663111
