Makale Başlığı: THE LIVING PLACES OF SUPERIOR HEROES: THE TRANSFORMATION OF BATMAN HOUSES
Özet: Each of the superheroes has different powers and different purposes, and therefore different characters. The superheroes created by social, cultural and political events have become part of our lives from 1938 onwards in the form of comics, films, games and toys. As superheroes hide their superpowers and their identities in their social environment, it can be said that living and working areas are often located in different places. Living and working areas are designed to reflect their character. The purpose of this article is to analyze how the character traits of superheroes in general and Batman in particular are reflected in the living spaces. From the film 'The Batman' first shot in 1943, not only the technology used in the film industry changed, but also changed the costumes and living spaces that became part of Batman's character has changed too. The development of the urban and architectural spaces associated with the Batman character, starting from Gotham city (Gotham city), is strong in Batman films. Through the Batman cave, interior design has become an important tool that reflects character traits. The redesign of the Batman Glass House for Bruce Wayne (Batman), the change in the design of the living space was handled in a socio-cultural context as all the superheroes can be traced along the socio-cultural environment within which they were created. The analysis of the films that make up the main resource for the paper has been supported by academic analysis. It is foreseen that superheroes will survive in the future as an alternative to the contemptuous life of ordinary people and the study aims to shed light on those who want to trace the relation of fictious space and real space.
Yazar isimleri: ['Huriye GÜRDALLI']
Yayın Yılı: 22 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Sosyal Bilimler ve Sanat Araştırmaları
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/issar/issue/71225/1103642
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2374993
