Makale Başlığı: Occurrence of fungal strawberry diseases in Central Anatolia Region of Turkey and reactions of some varieties grown widely against the important pathogens
Özet: Strawberry diseases, occurring in Central Anatolia region of Turkey was studied in the years 2013-2016 in the strawberry growing areas of Bartın, Kayseri, Konya, and Zonguldak provinces. Totally 515.5 da strawberry fields in the above mentioned provinces were visited and plants showing disease symptoms were counted and their percentages were determined. Foliage and root diseases were determined by using 383 samples collected from various fields. Seventeen fungal pathogens: namely Alternaria alternata (Fr.) Keissler, Boeremia exigua (Desmazières) Aveskamp, Gruyter & Verkley, Mycosphaerella fragariae (Tul.) Lindau., Colletotrichum acutatum J.H. Simmonds, Colletotrichum gleosporoides (Penz.) Penz., Botrytis cinerea (de Bary) Whetzel, Lasiodiplodia theobromae (Pat.) Griffon & Maubl., Diaporthe actinidae N.F. Sommer & Beraha., Diaporthe eres Nitschke, Didymella americana Saccardo ex Saccardo, Didymella pomorum (Thümen) Aveskamp, Gruyter & Verkley, Diplodia seriata de Notaris, Macrophomina phaseolina (Tassi) Goidanich, Peyronellae prosopidis, Phytophthora cactorum (Lebert & Cohn) J.Schröter, Phytophthora plurivora Jung & Burgess., Phytophthora kelmania were identified. A. alternata, was the most frequently isolated fungus and was obtained from 41.94% of the plant samples while root rot diseases caused by various fungi occurred on 38.13% of the fields. Reactions of twelve strawberry cultivars; (Festival, Kabarla, Sweetann, Alison, Osmanlı, Kara çilek, Tüylü, Sabrina, Rubigem, San Andreas, Albion, Festival, Monterey) were tested against the three most widespread pathogen; A. alternata, M. phaseolina and L. theobromae. With the 86% disease severity, Kabarla was found the most susceptible cv. against A. alternata while Tüylü was the most susceptible cv. against M. phaseolina and L. theobromae. Only one variety, Osmanlı, showed low disease intensity against three of the pathogens.
Yazar isimleri: ['Tülin SARIGÜL ERTEK', 'Servet UZUNOK', 'Süreyya ÖZBEN', 'İlker KURBETLİ', 'Salih MADEN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Bitki Koruma Bülteni
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bitkorb/issue/72728/1091079
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2323093
