Makale Başlığı: Teaching of Magnetism Unit Topics Via Active Learning Applications
Özet: The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of active learning on students’ achievement in the unit of magnetism. It is important to create proper teaching environments in order to ensure the active participation of students in learning processes. Many different methods and techniques may be used for active participation. Detailed information should be provided for the teachers on how these methods and techniques can be implemented. For this reason, an active learning environment was created in the present study by way of using worksheets accompanied by experiments, simulations, modelling, garden activity and games. It was explained how these activities are implemented for each of the acquisitions related with the magnetism unit topics. The study employed sequential explanatory mixed design. The subject of this study consisted of 98 eleventh grade students in a high school in Türkiye. The data were acquired via an open ended and multiple-choice conceptual achievement test, observation forms and interviews. The findings obtained illustrated that active learning applications increase academic achievements of students at a statistically significant level. In addition, it was concluded that active learning applications make a positive impact on the interest, attitude and motivations of the students towards the physics course. The results show that magnetism unit topics are effective in providing a conceptual change. It is suggested to use the applications shared in the present study for the teaching of abstract subjects such as magnetism. In this way, it may be possible to create learning environments that will enable instructors to reach the desired goals.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatma Nur BÜYÜKBAYRAKTAR', 'Refik DİLBER']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Participatory Educational Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/per/issue/72501/1074652
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2257820
