Makale Başlığı: The Beautiful Names Of Allah In The Works Of The Kazakh’s Poet Meshur Jusip Kopeyulı
Özet: In Kazakh literature, there are many Kazakh poets who want to read Allah's (c.c.) beautiful names and adjectives, starting with Hoca Ahmet Yesevi, and benefit from his virtues. One of them and the most important is Kazakh Sufi poet, Meshur Jusip Kopeyulı. The Sufi defended Islamic civilization and its spiritual values, and saw reason and science as a means for people to know Allah. Without a doubt; It is known that the poet's heart was open, believing that Allah is the only one and that our Prophet is His messenger. The poet contributed to the correct understanding and spread of Islam in Kazakh lands by combining scientific and religious information in his own works. The Meshur Jusip acted with his pure heart and mental feelings and reflected the foundations of Sharia in his own works. Sufi brought the literary genres of Sufi literature to Modern Kazakh Literature and reflected the essence of Islam in his poetic and prose works. Therefore, the poems of Meshur Jusip are predominantly religious. The poet also mentioned the magnificent craftsmanship of Almighty Allah, who created the universe and man, in his works. By including the divine names of Allah in his works, he wrote his works in literary genres such as Esmâ-i Hüsnâ. Esmâ-i Hüsna indicates the most beautiful (one hundred missing) names of Allah. It is aimed to know the beautiful names of Allahutaala (c.c.), to learn their meanings, and to express them by being inspired by his works. The importance of knowing the names of Allah, memorizing them and knowing their meanings. It is very important, as stated by the hadisths of Muhammad. Parent poets such as Sufi Meshur Jusip are aware of this.
Yazar isimleri: ['Moldir İLGİSHEVA']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Belgü
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/belgu/issue/60401/1108617
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2395325
