Makale Başlığı: On the Possibility of a New Classification of Maqāsid al-Sharīa on axis Eco-Fiqh (About Inclusion of the Environment in the Scope of Dārūriyāt)
Özet: Islamic law addresses all of God’s creations and aims to find solutions to all problems related to human, life and universe. Today, it is known that environmental problems have reached a level that cannot be ignored. Therefore, the discourses of Islamic law have become important these problems. Eco-fiqh, which dealths with environmental problems with globalization and aims to find solutions to these problems, has recently been an important area Islamic law. In Islamic law, environmental issues evaluated mostly within the scope of maslaha. Accordingly, actions for the benefit of human beings by prioritizing the benefit of environment and other living things, maslaha was operated mostly in favor of human. In the study, attention to the importance of rethinking the centrality of the human being and positioning the environment correctly among the maslahat. Thus, it is stated that the environment and other living creatures in the environment should be positioned as a part of ecology and principle of reciprocity and responsibility should prevail in ecology, taking into account the benefit of all living things. In Islamic discourse, the principle for the protection of environment have been interpreted within the framework of some general rules inspired by verses and hadīths. As a result of this, the environment indirectly included in the jurisprudence. In usūl al-fiqh, the issues related to protection of the environment are generally associated with maqāsid al-Sharīa (God’s purposes). For this reason, Islamic jurists who have studied Islamic law in the context of maqāsid al-sharīa to define and make sense of the problems of the environment and the living creatures in it through human beings. As jurists who approach the subject from this perspective Shātibī and Yousuf al- Qordāwī from the recent period have views worth considering in the context of the discussions. Shātibī’s views were applied to form the basis of Islamic ecological theory in the context of theory of maslaha. As for Qordāwī, he wrote a single work on the environment to address the importance of this issue. Addressing environmental problems within the scope of five principles that must be protected, called dārūriyāt al-hamse, Qordāwī has grounded the importance of protecting the environment (hifẓul bīah) for each principle by associating it with human. However the fact that the protection of the environment and other living creatures is based human beings gives an instrumental importance to these living. This does not seem compatible with the belief that God created all creatures equal. This study questions the possibility of such equality.The study proposes to reorganize the dārūriyāt al-hamse and include it in the five basic principles that should protect the environment. There are suggestions in the literature regarding the inclusion of morality in the scope of necessity. Like these suggestions, it may come to the fore to include the environment in the scope of necessary rules due to its importance and need. Solution initiatives for the environmental crisis need to be based on philosophical and ethical theories. Such a theoretical ground is needed for the establishment of Islamic ethics, philosophy and even law. In order to create this ground, it has been considered important to consider the approach of Islam to the environmental issue within the framework of fiqh. Eco-fiqh is a new field in which efforts to bring a fiqh perspective and offer solution of environmental problems. In the context of eco-fiqh studies and discussions Islamic environmental ethics can be created and a roadmap of Islamic discourse on the environment can be drawn. In order to realize all these, the importance of the environment should be revealed from classical Islamic law sources. In this study, it is discussed how the environment and related issues which are not directly included in the classical discourse should be handled in the modern period. It is seen that the discussions about the environment are generally realized over maslaha. In the study, the views of Qordāwī, one of the last period jurists on the environment were critically analyzed, it was concluded that the environment should be included in the necessary maslahat. For this reason, he studies questions the possibility of taking the environment from the scope of necessity and basing the protection of the environment as an independent entity not on human beings.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatma HAZAR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Amasya İlahiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/amailad/issue/70416/1101208
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2365112
