Makale Başlığı: Assessment of the publication performance in the Scopus database of faculty members in foreign language departments
Özet: This study intends to assess the publication performances of the faculty members in the foreign language departments of the universities in Turkey in the Scopus database by several variables such as the number of articles published, the number of citations to these articles, and their h-index values. Drawing on a survey model, this descriptive research forms its corpus through the platform of Higher Education Academic Research (https://akademik.yok.gov.tr/AkademikArama/). The search on this platform yields 1,762 faculty members within branches of "foreign language education", "world languages and literatures", "ancient languages and literatures", "translation", "linguistics" and "comparative literature." The names of these faculty members, whose titles, fields, universities, and departments where they work are listed on an Excel file, are searched one by one on the "author search" section on the Scopus (https://www.scopus.com) database; the results are categorized by number of articles, citations and h-index values. This categorization reveals that there are an average of 1,821 articles, 6,152 citations and 0.96 h-index value. Analysis of the findings by departments shows that despite being few in number compared to their colleagues in the departments of language and literature, the faculty members in the departments of foreign language education have a greater publication performance, which makes their ranking higher. The findings on fields imply that the publications are mostly concentrated in German English, German and French, which are both the most widely spoken languages in the world and the languages of the countries with the highest number of journals on international platforms. Further, the correlation between the number of articles and citations, and titles, is striking in that the frequency of publications increases as the academic titles of the faculty members get higher. Given the requirement to publish a certain number of academic publications for academic appointments and promotions, these data show a positive correlation between these two variables. This study concludes with suggestions to improve the quality of publications in the specified fields and to encourage faculty members towards scientific production, based on the data obtained.
Yazar isimleri: ['Erdoğan KARTAL']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1193070
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2724687
