Makale Başlığı: Developing a model for valuation maps in rural and urban areas
Özet: The importance of real estate valuation is increasing every day for the adoption and maintenance of the principle of “Sustainable Land Management” in the world. Real estate valuation has become one of the most important systems needed for” Sustainable Land Management". In the developing technological world, there is a need for valuation in the field of buying and selling, expropriation, taxation, etc. it is rapidly increasing in areas. As a result of this increase, it is seen that a model with a high standard and accuracy has not yet been developed for real estate valuation. In the process of urban development; it is constantly undergoing changes with projects such as industrialization, agriculture, migration, natural disasters, plan changes, zoning practices, expropriation and urban transformation. Together with these factors, the concept of value is undergoing changes for dynamic reasons. The reasons are dynamic and variable, considering the city plan management of real estate valuation, conversion, application, and regular monitoring of the impact of the annuity, to be easily solved judicial disputes about property value, tax provision of justice, the protection of the rights of both citizens and public institutions is seen as an important discipline in many areas such as. With the technology developing together with them, we see the importance of location-based data called Geographic Information System in all areas today. It is possible to say that the location, physical and attribute characteristics of the immovable property play an important role in the valuation of the immovable property. For this reason, it has been revealed through scientific studies that location-based data provides suitable solutions for real estate valuation.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ömer SATILMIŞOĞLU', 'Bahadır YILMAZ', 'Mustafa KURT']
Yayın Yılı: 13 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Anadolu Orman Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ajfr/issue/70262/1100140
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2360509
