Makale Başlığı: HOSPITAL ADMISSION CONTRACT
Özet: The right to health is a constitutional right, and in this context, it is expected that access to the right to health will be provided in accordance with the social state principle, one of the basic principles in the constitution. However, considering the increasing population and the pandemic process affecting the whole world, it is seen that public hospitals have difficulties in meeting the current need. For this reason, especially in recent years, private institutions and organizations have started to operate significantly in the field of health. With the inclusion of the private sector in the field of health, there has been a great increase in the opening of private hospitals providing inpatient diagnosis and treatment services. This increase has brought with it the need to clarify how the health services undertaken by these hospitals, which are managed by private institutions and aiming for economic profit, are carried out. While one of the parties to the medical diagnosis, treatment and intervention relationship is usually a patient, the other party may be a public or private hospital. In the event that the said medical intervention is performed in public hospitals, a public law relationship emerges, not a contractual relationship between the hospital and the patient. However, if the medical intervention is done in private hospitals instead of public hospitals, we come across a hospital admission contract. Hospital admission contract is a private law contract between the patient or the legal representative of the patient and the private hospital. In this type of contract, the patient makes an agreement with only the hospital or both the hospital and the physician who will perform this service in order to receive medical diagnosis, treatment and intervention services. The rights and obligations of the parties also vary according to the type of hospital admission contract.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mine ERCEVAHİR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İstanbul Medeniyet Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/imhfd/issue/72794/1182051
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2679307
