Makale Başlığı: AN OVERVIEW ON FOREST INDUSTRY SECTOR IN TURKEY: CONSTRAINTS, PROBLEMS AND SOLUTIONS
Özet: In this study, the effects on forest industrysector, price determination policies and past and present conditions of woodraw materials supplied from national forest resources to forest industry sectorwere examined in Turkey. The data which is obtained from literature review,legislation and applications are analysed using data analysis method, and thenthe subject is evaluated. With the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, itis accepted that the principle of operation and management of national forestsis given to General Directorate of Forestry (GDF) which is state institution.Until the privatization of state-owned enterprises, Forest Products IndustryCorporation (ORUS) and Turkey Pulp and Paper Factories (SEKA), a large part ofthe wood raw material produced from national forest resources supplied subsidyto these institutions by the GDF. At the end of the 20th century, forestindustry sector in Turkey began to be represented by factories, plant andbusinesses established by private sector entrepreneurs. The GDF has laggedbehind in new forest industry structure composed of private sectorentrepreneurs; it reduced the cost of wood raw material production andprevented the real price from being produced in the wood raw material market,since GDF is a monopoly. Due to both the growth of the sector and the highprices of wood raw materials produced by the GDF, companies had to import woodraw materials. The GDF is the monopoly of wood raw materials; it is still onthe market to present to estimated price with high costs of the wood rawmaterial for buyers that have to buy. The GDF, which accepts high costs on theformation of wood raw material prices, declared that due to both high laborcosts of production of the wood raw material and supporting the development ofthe forest village. But this high costs is still paid by forest industry firmswho still receive wood raw materials from GDF. It is understood that rawmaterial supply and pricing policies implemented by GDF constitute a majorobstacle to the development of the sector. Nowadays, Turkey is structurally developed positively; both the sectorand rural areas have been affected positively by this development. The changein the size and scope of rural development altered the concept of poor and poorforest villagers. The Law design to ensure the real prices of wood rawmaterials produced by GDF were accepted the Grand National Assembly of Turkey(TBMM) on April 19, 2018. This draft law introduces changes in 30 and 40articles of the Forest Law 6831. With the amendment of this legislation, it isbelieved that GDF will eliminate unnecessary burden on wood raw materials costsand contribute to the development of private sector businesses operating in theforest industry sector. Thus, after privatization of ORUS, OGM will establishpositive relationships with the forest industry sector in Turkey.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet TOLUNAY', 'Turkay TÜRKOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2019
Dergi ismi: İleri Teknoloji Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/duzceitbd/issue/51527/642281
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/918829
