Makale Başlığı: Identification of circadian-related gene mutation and expression patterns in skin cancer
Özet: Aim: Many peripheral organs have endogenous rhythms that are modulated by circadian rhythm; the skin is one of these peripheral organs. Irregularities in rhythm can reprogram cellular pathways and lead to cell proliferation, resistance to apoptosis, metastasis, elimination of immune system cells, and increased angiogenesis. The aim of this study was to comprehensively investigate the mutational and m-RNA profile of core circadian rhythm genes in SKCM samples. Methods: The genome sequences and gene expression profiles of SKCM (n:462) patients were downloaded from the TCGA database. Mutation frequency and mutation patterns of target genes were determined in detail. PolyPhen-2 and SNAP tools were used to estimate the oncogenic properties of the mutations we detected for SKCM. Simultaneously, m-RNA expression profiles were determined to asses the functional effects of mutations in circadian rhythm genes. Finally, STRING network analysis was performed to better understand the functional relationships of mutated proteins in cellular processes. Results: There were 152 missense mutations, 13 nonsense mutations, 6 splice region mutations and, 2 fusion gene mutations among the 173 mutations found in 10 genes, and 62 of them had pathogenic properties. The m-RNA expression levels of BMAL1, CRY2, PER1, PER2, and PER3 were down-regulated in SKCM tissue samples, while TIMELESS was up-regulated compared to the the healthy group (p<0.01). The effect of m-RNA expression, considered a prognostic marker, on overall survival was found to be significant for decreased ARNTL (p=0.00038) level and increased TIMELESS (p=0.00033) level. Conclusion: Determining this molecular perspective may be useful in developing targeted drug therapies and personalized medicine.
Yazar isimleri: ['Dilara Fatma AKIN', 'Didem ÖZKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Sağlık Profesyonelleri Araştırma Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jhpr/issue/73056/1175054
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2649817
