Makale Başlığı: PROVINCIAL TROUBLE IN CEMAL HURŞİD’S NOVEL SIRTLAN Nurcan
Özet: Cemal Hurşid is a writer who has not yet found a place for himself in the history and studies of Turkish literature. For thisreason, in this article, it is aimed both to draw the attention of researchers to this author and to point out a few points aboutthe author’s understanding of novel by making a review on his novel named Hyena. This article, which is about the hyenanovel, is on the theme of provincial boredom that directs the plot of the novel rather than an analysis. For this reason, firstly,it was tried to determine how the problem of the countryside wsa reflected in the novel and the moves that eliminated thi sproblem through the signifiers, which are the elements of the narrative. While doing this, the causes and consequences ofboth the rural distress and the mechanisms to overcome this distress have been tried to be clarified with philosophical andpsychoanalytic side readings. The events in the novel take place during the First World War. In the first part of the novel, civilservants and traders coming from outside to an Anatolian town hold sedentary verbal entertainments in order to overcomethe provincial troubles and expand their lives, indifferent to the events in the outside world. In the second part of the novel,a love that develops due to these entertainments is interrupted by a death when it is about to turn into a marriage. A lovedone dies as a result of an illness. The lover, on the other hand, is deprived of ego/self energy in the real world, as he sends allhis libido/life energy to the loved one. He cannot overcome the difficulties in life, he becomes weak in the face of this death,he cannot fight his grief. He cannot fill the void of the girl he loves with another object and occupation. For these reasons,he loses his reality principle to the extent that he goes to visit the grave of his loved one and kills his father-in-law. Again,those who come to this town from outside cannot spread their aesthetic pleasure and pleasure to more than one objectand sense due to the limited living space in the town. They have to fill the lack and ontic void in aesthetic life with a singleoccupation, object or person. When this object or person is lost, they fall into the void because the void cannot be filled withanother occupation, person or object. İn Cemal Hurşid’s novel Sırtlan, both the cause of entertainment and the cause ofdisasters are rural distress. In fact, in the provincial town of the novel, pleasure and death are intertwined
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Yeni Türk Edebiyatı Araştırmaları
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ytea/issue/70130/1124336
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2459697
