Makale Başlığı: UTILIZATION OF GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM CAPABILITIES FOR ENERGY CROP CULTIVATION ACTIVITIES: DETERMINATION OF SUITABLE AREAS FOR MISCANTHUS
Özet: Biomass energy is a renewable energy source obtained from agricultural or animal organic waste or products. Studies on the research of energy crops and the production of biofuels such as biodiesel and bioethanol from these plants get attention from researchers all over the world. Investments and researches in the field of biomass energy have also been conducted in Turkey since 2010. Mostly, species with low irrigation and maintanence needs are preferred for energy crop cultivation activities. The ability of energy crops to adapt to marginal areas and contribute to the ecosystem is also important. Therefore, it is significant to grow the energy crops in the idle lands unpreferable for agricultural purposes and to produce bioenergy raw materials by processing these crops. Switchgrass, miscanthus, and sorghum species are among the main energy crops that have been tested via cultivate and field trials in Turkey. In this study, a Geographical Information Systems (GIS) aided site selection analysis was made to determine the suitable lands for the cultivation of miscanthus plant in Eskişehir province.  A 5–scale suitability classification, where 5 referred to the most suitable lands while 1 showed the least suitable ones, was adopted. In the first place, restricted and unsuitable lands were extracted from the study area covering 1.404.055 hectares, and then a number of multi-criteria based analysis and weighted overlay processes were performed within the remaining lands corresponding to an area of 289.550 ha (20,62% of the total study area). According to the results, a total land of 224.956 hectares fell in the moderate suitability (3) class, while the amount of high suitability (4) lands were found to cover 64.594 hectares.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehtap ÖZENEN KAVLAK', 'Saye Nihan ÇABUK']
Yayın Yılı: 4 Temmuz 2021
Dergi ismi: GSI Journals Serie C: Advancements in Information Sciences and Technologies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aist/issue/63581/870000
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1539920
