Makale Başlığı: A Discussion on the Concept of Eco-Terrorism: An Analysis of the Earth Liberation Front and Animal Liberation Front
Özet: In the aftermath of 9/11, a vast scholarly debate has arisen to redefine the highly contested concept ofterrorism. On one side, political authorities and security institutions gradually expanded the term’smeaning. On the other side, many scholars intended to give an objective and precise definition toprevent the abuse of fundamental rights and freedoms in the name of the war against terrorism. During the same period, despite the increasing attention given to the rise of international terrorism, in the US,another type of terrorism – domestic terrorism – has shown up and triggered a series of debates. Inthe 2000s, the FBI defined eco-terrorism as the most dangerous threat for the US as ecological groupsdamaged the property of innocent civilian people and committed terrorist attacks. This paper analyzestwo ecological and animal rights movements (Earth Liberation Front, ELF and Animal Liberation Front, ALF). It focuses on these movements’ strategies and activities, such as arsons, monkey-wrenching and property damage to decide whether they can be classified as terrorists. For doing that, the article uses Ganor’s definition of terrorism. Through the debate on eco-terrorism, the article aimsto put forward the still imprecise part of Ganor’s definition and demonstrate the necessary criteria tobe established to provide a well-structured definition for the concept of terrorism. In this regard, thedefinitions suggested for terrorism must decide whether an act is accepted as violent when directedtoward a civilian, or property damage can be conceptualized as violent. Moreover, the newly establisheddefinition must clearly explain who or what civilian targets are. Finally, the acts committed by the ELFand ALF must be evaluated on the ground of fear they provoked among people. This last criterionreveals the missing part of Ganor’s definition.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayfer GENÇ YILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Marmara Üniversitesi Siyasal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/marmarasbd/issue/72775/1030019
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2105417
