Makale Başlığı: Kısasü'l Enbiyâ in Old Oghuz language written in the Classic Ottoman Turkish period
Özet: The genre of Kısasü'l-Enbiyâ in Turkish literature emerged after Arabic and Persian literature. Kısasü'l-Enbiyâ, which we see its  Turkish example in the field of Harezm is the narration of events that prophets passed through. With the conversion of the Turks, the translation activities and the activities of writing new works also increased. This situation also provided important contributions to the development of written language. Turks wrote many works to learn the principles of this new religion after they converted to Islam. In this article, a product of Kısasü'l-Enbiyâ written for this purpose has been examined.  This Kısasü'l-Anbiyâ, which was written to raise awareness of the people and tells the lives of the prophets by supporting them with verses, hadiths and narrations, was written in prose and consists of 259 leaves. There is no information about who wrote the manuscript, where and when it was written. Due to the large scope of the work, the longest parable in the examined parts is Hz. Abraham’s parable. It has been examined whether the features in the manuscript reflect the Transitional Phase. In the examination, some features are mentioned such as labial harmony, reverse incompatibility, contradiction to language harmony,  binary shapes seen in sound change between e - i and also use of the future tense suffix. Based on the linguistic features of the work, we can say that it was written in the last days of the Old Anatolian Turkish Period and was copied in the Classical Ottoman Turkish Period. With this study, it is aimed to contribute to the historical development of the Turkish language and the history of Turkish literature by introducing Kısasü'l-Enbiyâ with archive number 13765 in Konya İzzeddin Koyunoğlu City Museum and Library
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1190288
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2713260
