Makale Başlığı: Content Analysis of Postgraduate Theses in the Field of Midwifery
Özet: The study was conducted to examine the content of postgraduate theses in the field of midwifery in Turkey.The type of the study is retrospective, descriptive, and qualitative based on the literature, and a purposive sampling method was used. Theuniverse of the research consists of all postgraduate theses in the field of midwifery completed between 2004-2021 in Turkey, which areincluded in the national thesis center page of the Council of Higher Education between 01 May-01 September 2021.The entire universe was included in the study, and no sample selection was made. The percentages of quantitative data, theme tree andcode maps of qualitative data are given.In the study, 472 masters’ and 42 doctoral theses were reached. It was determined that descriptive research design was used in most master’stheses, and experimental research design was used in doctoral theses. The sample of the most master’s and doctoral theses examined inthe study consists of pregnant, puerperal women and women. When the data were examined in the study, 96 codes were determined anddivided into four main themes “dimensions of health”, “midwife”, “periods” and “women’s health”.As a result, in most theses made in midwifery graduate education, the sample consists of pregnant women, puerperal women, and women.The main themes with the most frequent number of coding were determined as dimensions of health, midwife, periods and women’shealth, respectively. Considering our study findings in the selection of the subject, sample, and research design in the studies planned to becarried out in the future will increase the quality of the scientific knowledge produced in the field of midwifery.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yasemin ERKAL AKSOY', 'Ayşe Nur ATAŞ', 'Sema YILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Yükseköğretim ve Bilim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/higheredusci/issue/72432/1023106
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2079604
