Makale Başlığı: GASTRONOMY TOURISM POTENTIAL OF BEYPAZARI, ANKARA
Özet: The culinary culture of Ankara, which has hosted many civilizations with its deep-rooted past and is the Capital of the Republic of Turkey, has reached today by being influenced by every society living in it. Ankara is one of the most accessible cities in Turkey due to its location and being the capital city. Looking at the districts of Ankara, it is seen that they have a variety of gastronomic products with many different tastes and some activities regarding gastronomy. Accordingly, the districts in Ankara have a high potential in terms of gastronomic tourism and Beypazarı is one of the prominent districts among these districts, which is understood from the tours organized by the travel agencies where the number of tourists coming to the district and the food and beverage businesses that provide service of the local products are gained. The aim of this study is to evaluate Beypazarı in terms of gastronomic tourism and to reveal its gastronomic abundance by examining it. Although there are studies on geographically indicated products of Beypazarı, the Beypazarı Kurusu in relation with visitor desires in the literature, no study has been found on the gastronomic tourism potential and gastronomic products of Beypazarı. In this respect, it is thought that the results of the study will benefit those who will visit Ankara for gastronomy tourism, especially gastronomy tourism in Beypazarı, and businesses operating in Beypazarı itself. Within the scope of the research, a literature review was made and observations were done by visiting the Beypazarı district of Ankara. In light of the collected data, the gastronomic potential of Beypazarı, the local food and beverages offered, the products with geographical indications and the gastronomy-oriented events organized were included. Various suggestions have been developed in order to obtain more benefits from gastronomic tourism.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hüseyin Fatih ZARARSIZ', 'Şaban KARGİGLİOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Çatalhöyük Uluslararası Turizm ve Sosyal Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cutsad/issue/71091/1090206
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2319486
