Makale Başlığı: Surgical treatment results for adolescent flexible flatfoot
Özet: Surgical treatment results for adolescent flexible flatfoot  Purpose: Idiopathic flexible pes planus (IFPP) is a common foot problem in adolescents and young adults. Our hypothesis was that combined procedures for IFPP in adolescents and young adults can achieve results as good as those in adult acquired pes planovalgus treatment in adults.  Methods: 18 patients' 21 feet (10 boys, 8 girls) with a mean age of 15,6 underwent surgical reconstruction for flatfoot deformity. Symptomatic patients who were unresponsive to conservative treatment were included in the study group. The mean follow-up time was 39,2 months. AOFAS scores were calculated for all patients and all families were asked whether they would have the surgery under same circumstances or not.  Results: All procedures carried out by the same surgeon, were as follows: Calcaneus lateral column lengthening osteotomy, in 21 feet; percutaneous lengthening or gastrocnemius recession for Achilles tendon, in 21 feet; calcaneus medializing osteotomy, in 15 feet; flexor digitorum longus tendon transfer, in 15 feet; medial cuneiform open wedge osteotomy in 5 feet and accessory navicular bone excision, in 2 feet. Preoperative mean AOFAS scores significantly increased from 56,76 to 95,29. All parents stated that they were satisfied with the surgery results and would undergo the same surgery again. Conclusions: Soft tissue and bony procedures which are used for reconstruction of adult acquired flexible pes planovalgus, can safely be used for IFPP of adolescents and young adults too.  Level of Clinical Evidence:  Level 4 case series DOI: 10.3944/AOTT.2016.15.0431This abstract belongs to the un-edited version of the article and is only for informative purposes. Published version may differ from the current version.
Yazar isimleri: ['Necip Yontar', 'Tahir Ogut', 'Ata Can']
Yayın Yılı: 3 Haziran 2016
Dergi ismi: Acta Orthopaedica et Traumatologica Turcica
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aott/issue/18258/192627
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/user/project/new
