Makale Başlığı: ILO CONVENTION NO. 190 ON VIOLENCE AND HARASSMENT: IMPACTS ON WOMEN'S EMPLOYMENT
Özet: Inequalities and discriminations faced by male and female employees still continue in the ongoing changes in working life around the world. Violence and harassment, defined as violations of fundamental human rights in particular, have negative effects on employment, both in the private sphere and in the workplace. Violence and harassment is one of the main problems that all stakeholders of working life should solve together. Violence and harassment, whether at home or in the workplace, affects female employment more than male workers, especially due to gender-based discrimination, gender stereotypes and care responsibilities. In 2019, when the International Labour Organization celebrated its 100th anniversary, it focused on violence and harassment by accepting “the Convention on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment at Work Life" also known as the International Labour Organization Convention No. 190. Within the purpose and scope of the contract, it explains the mechanisms for the protection and prevention of employees and other related persons against violence and harassment experienced at workplaces across all sectors, whether registered or unregistered, private or public, temporary or permanent, even including internships. In this study, the effects of this Convention on women's employment were discussed with causality relations as well as the subject, scope and mechanisms of the Convention No. 190. Moreover, within the context of this paper, gender-focused topics that affect women's employment which are among the main problems of working life were evaluated together with the relevant articles of the International Labour Organization No. 190 Convention.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nuran Halise BELET']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Akademik Hassasiyetler
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/akademik-hassasiyetler/issue/72383/1116780
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2428231
