Makale Başlığı: A study to examine health professionals' perceptions of information technologies
Özet: The concepts of knowledge and informatics are frequently encountered in many areas of our lives. Going to semantic studies of these concepts and analyzing their properties and components shed light on the subject. This research aims to measure the perceptions of healthcare professionals working in Bilecik regarding information technologies. Data were collected between December 1, 2020, and December 31, 2020, using the questionnaire technique from health professionals working in Bilecik. Questions to measure participants' perceptions of information technologies were taken from Venkatesh and Bala (2008). Expressions were evaluated using a 5-point Likert scale. Out of the questionnaire study in which 252 people participated, 32 questionnaires with missing data were not included in the evaluation. Analyzes were carried out on 220 survey data. Research hypotheses were tested by performing independent group t-test and ANOVA analysis. According to the analysis findings, a significant finding was obtained in the variable of perceived usefulness in terms of the professional experience and age of the participants. As the professional experience of the participant's increases, their perceived usefulness towards information technologies increase. Again, when the concerns about information technologies are examined in terms of professional experience, as the professional experience of the participants' increases, their anxiety about information technologies decreases. However, it was concluded that there was no significant difference in the variables of perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, and anxiety in terms of gender and education level of the participants. According to the results of the research, it was seen that while gender and education levels were not effective in the perceptions of health professionals towards information technologies, professional experience and age variables were effective.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kenan KOÇAK', 'Tarık SEMİZ', 'Esra CENGİZ TIRPAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Sakarya Üniversitesi İşletme Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sauied/issue/70756/1106446
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2386399
