Makale Başlığı: A Statistical Analysis for the Gender Employment Gap in Higher Education Institutions in Turkey
Özet: Gender inequality is the situation of inequality against women in accessing opportunities and resources depending on the social, cultural and economic structure and even the policies created. Gender discrimination in employment, on the other hand, has entered a more positive process with the increase in sensitivity towards the issue and opportunities for women to develop their qualifications and abilities. The aim of this study is to examine the existence of gender inequality in employment in higher education in Turkey in terms of academic titles. For public and private universities, the existence of gender inequality in employment in higher education for 2020 was investigated with the help of the Mann-Whitney-U test. As a result of the analysis, statistically significant differences were determined for male and female academicians with regards to the titles of; Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professors in terms of faculty member employment. It has been observed that the number of male academicians in these positions is high. However, there is no statistically significant difference between male and female academicians for the titles of Lecturer and Research Assistant. This indicates the existence of gender inequality in employment of those employed as Professor, Associate Professor and Dr. as Faculty Members. In the process of admission to the academy, providing objective criteria and improving women's opportunities for self-development will eliminate gender inequality. As a result, it is of great importance to improve the conditions necessary for the protection of gender equality in academia.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: KADEM Kadın Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kademkad/issue/70604/1137339
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2525673
