Makale Başlığı: Academician Attitude Scale for the Transition to Emergency and Mandatory Distance Education with the Covid 19 Pandemic: A Scale Development Study
Özet: The Covid-19 disease, which has increased rapidly among countries in a short time, has brought along social concerns and concerns aroundthe world, along with positive cases and deaths. For all that, the pandemic threat faced by countries has negatively affected many sectors,especially the health sector. One of these sectors is the education sector. It has become a necessity to take the necessary precautions for theeducation sector, which affects a large audience. The first of these measures is the “Emergency and Compulsory Distance Education Plan”.In this context, with the legislative arrangement made within the body of the Higher Education Board, distance education applicationsin all fields of all universities were allowed. While 123 universities with Distance Education Center infrastructure are carried out throughthese systems, the needs of universities, which lack infrastructure, have been tried to be met in cooperation with other universities underthe coordination of the Council of Higher Education. Considering the education stakeholders, it is thought that it will be important toget opinions about the transition to Emergency and Compulsory Education from academicians/instructors who play an active role inlearning and teaching activities and to reveal their attitudes on this issue in order to improve the process. In the light of all this information,in this study, it is aimed to reveal a valid and reliable scale for the relevant subject. The scale was carried out with 163 academicians workingin different faculties and technical colleges of a state university. The three-factor structure of the scale with an eigenvalue greater than1 explains 67.41% of the total variance. The validity and reliability studies carried out to prove its consistency within scale. The resultsof Exploratory Factor Analysis (EFA) and Confirmatory Factor Analysis (CFA) applied for validity and reliability studies of the scale;supports the submission of the “Academician Attitude Scale towards the Transition to Emergency and Compulsory Distance Educationwith the COVID-19 Pandemic” to the literature as a valid and reliable scale.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ezgi Pelin YILDIZ', 'Metin ÇENGEL', 'Ayşe ALKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Yükseköğretim ve Bilim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/higheredusci/issue/72432/1049411
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2161803
