Makale Başlığı: The Examination Of Teacher’s Digital Literacy Levels During Covid-19 Process
Özet: Considering the current period, it has become inevitable for teachers at the education level to have a command of digital technologies and to include them in their teaching processes. This state, which can be expressed with the concept of digital literacy, has gained importance therein the scope of education and training practices with the Covid-19 process. With research, it is purposed to analyze the digital literacy levels of who teach during the Covid-19 process in the 2020-2021 academic year in situation of different variables. The mixed method was utilizated in the info collection process in the survey, whose pattern come about 124 secondary school working in different branches in Bursa. During the examination, the Digital Literacy Scale improved by Ng 2012 and the conformation studies of the scale into Turkish were made by Hamutoğlu, Güngören, Uyanık and Erdoğan (2017) was used. Within the scope in the research, open-ended queries were also asked to the participants to examine their use of technology in the teaching activities carried out during the Covid-19 period. The results indicated that teachers have high levels of digital literacy. There was no important difference between the digital literacy levels of the teachers and the variables of seniority, computer usage time, daily internet usage time; that was determined that there was a major distinction between the variables of gender, seniority (technical sub-dimension), educational status, computer usage time (technical and social sub-dimension). As an outcome of the open-ended questions directed to teachers, it was defined that most of the teachers experienced positive changes with the experience gained at the point of benefiting from technology in the teaching processes. During the Covid-19 pandemic process, which lasted approximately 2 years, teachers found that the digital learning content they used in their lectures was highly beneficial and specified that teaching activities applied in this way removed time and space limits, learning became faster and more memorable, the teaching environment was enriched and the incentive of the students to lesson increased. They mentioned that this pandemic period should be seen as an advantage sustained the digital age and they wished it to be permanent for the future. Various suggestions have been presented in the context of the result.
Yazar isimleri: ['Cem DOĞAN', 'Salih BİRİŞÇİ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Ege Eğitim Teknolojileri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/eetd/issue/70271/1152403
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2569966
