Makale Başlığı: The Value Of Early Period Kufa Tafsir Datas In Terms Of Narration Systematics
Özet: The city of Kufe, which was established as a military garrison in the 17th year of Hijri by Sa'd b. Ebî Vakkâs, became one of the centers where scholarly activities were carried out intensively in the early periods of Islam. This city, which had a very small population in the beginning, has undergone a great change with the migrations from various regions towards it and has turned into a big center with its new residents who differ in terms of faith, ethnicity and culture. Tafsir studies in the city started with Abdullah b. Mas'ud, who was sent here as a teacher through a special election by the Caliph Omar. In this city where he has been a resident for about 10 years, he has created a significant scholarly knowledge in the field of tafsir, both through his regular lectures and his works in ordinary environments. In the next period, this knowledge was further developed with the students who were trained in his course circles and gained the identity of a school.In this study, the tafsir heritage built by the mufassirs from Kufa in the early period has been examined. However, this examination was made on the chains of narrations that are the means of transferring the aforementioned heritage, rather than the text/content. The aim of the study is to determine the soundness of this scholarly knowledge and to reveal the school-like structure of the Kufa tafsir activities by determining the orientation of the narrators in the chains which is shaped by the teacher-student relationship. Kufe tafsir heritage has been recorded by many sources of various fields. However, the most important work in which the chains are preserved in their original form is the tafsir of Muhammed b. Cerîr et-Taberî (d. 310/923) named Câmiu'l-Beyân fî Te'vîli'l-Kur'an. Therefore, the chains were determined through this work. However, the chains of the information belonging to the mufassirs of the Kufa in the aforementioned work are at a level that exceeds the scope of this study numerically. For this reason, in the study, a limitation was made regarding the chains and the most repeated chains were examined in each section covering the categories of marfû, mawkûf and maqtû. According to this, 48 chains that were the carriers of 238 narrations of the school with their repetitions were evaluated and it was seen that most of them were connected. It has been understood that some chains remain at the mursal/munqati' level due to their lack of ittisal conditions. Although there are many representatives of the school, representatives such as Alkame b. Kays (d. 62/682), Mesrûk b. Ecda' (d. 63/683), İbrahim b. Yazîd an-Nehai (d. 96/714) and Amir b. Şerâhil al-Sha'bî (d. 104/722) generally took part in conveying this information. Abdullah b. Mes'ud was the one who usually took place at the source of the narrations, which is one of the most important indicators of the school-level structure of the Kufe tafsir knowledge that emerged in the early period.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fahri ÇAKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Balıkesir İlahiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/baid/issue/70440/1134060
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2500205
