Makale Başlığı: TEAM CONTRACT
Özet: A team contract is the only type of contract that allows the establishment of a group relationship in Turkish law and is regulated by law. The regulation on the team contract is contained in Article 16 of the Labor Code. In practice, most of the time, construction work, cargo transport work in ports, work performed in the form of an orchestra, seasonal work and agricultural work, team contracts are preferred.The contract concluded between an employer and a team guide who represented the team of employees is called a team contract. The details on the work to be done with this contract are clarified. Workers generate the team start working on the terms written in this contract when they start working. There are a number of differences between the team contract and the group working relationship which is regulated in German law.If the workers who is in the team do not start work, the provision of Article 128 of the Turkish Code of Obligation (guarantee of performance by third party) shall be applied for the damage caused by this reason. The team guide is responsible to the employer. The legal characteristic of the team contract is controversial in the doctrine. These opinions can be summarized as guarantee of performance by third party, simple agency contract, agency, unauthorized agency, simple partnership contract.After the team contract has been signed, the employer should start the workers in the team to work under the terms written in the contract. The team contract must be made in a written form. Wages arising from employment contracts signed as a result of the team contract must be paid to each employee separately. Payments to the team guide do not eliminate the employer's wage payment debt. In addition, since the team contract has been signed, it is not possible to deduct employee wages and pay this fee to the team guide. The purpose of the team contract is to determine the working conditions of the workers who generate the team. By the time all the workers in the team start working, this contract has achieved its purpose and ends.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bilâl TOPRAK']
Yayın Yılı: 12 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Yıldırım Beyazıt Hukuk Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ybuhukuk/issue/72531/952442
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1824220
