Makale Başlığı: The Impact of Gluten-Free Diet on Microbiota
Özet: A gluten-free diet is defined as a dietary model that does not include wheat, barley, rye and their products. It is a therapeutic approach that should be applied for life in individuals with a diagnosis of celiac or gluten intolerance. However, recently, healthy individuals can be applied frequently to reduce complaints such as flatulence, bloating and body weight loss. Although the positive or negative effects of this practice are not clear, the effects on the microbiota are being examined. Gut microbiota is defined as an organ that affects human health by producing harmful or beneficial metabolites and protects against pathogens, contributes to the immune system and regulates gastrointestinal development. It has been reported that the gluten-free diet partly or exactly corrects the dysbiosis in the microbiota in individuals who need to follow a gluten-free diet, such as celiac patients. It is also stated that probiotic supplementation in addition to the gluten-free diet in celiac disease helps to restore intestinal homeostasis. On the contrary, it has been reported that gluten-free diet practice causes microbiota dysbiosis in healthy individuals. It is emphasized that this effect is related to the low ingredient of complex carbohydrates and vegetable protein and high fat in gluten-free diet. As a result, gluten-free diet is effective on the intestinal microbiota, and effect on those with celiac disease and healthy individuals may be different. Especially in studies with healthy individuals, there are limitations due to the small sample size and short practice times. More studies are needed to reach a clear mechanism and data in the evaluation of the effect of gluten on the microbiota.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nurbanu BÜYÜK']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Sağlık Bilimlerinde Değer
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sabd/issue/72485/1173946
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2644964
