Makale Başlığı: A preliminary study of the Turkish adaptation of Hypomanic Attitudes and Positive  Predictions Inventory
Özet: According to the Integrative Cognitive Model, mood fluctuations are sustained due to multiple, excessive, conflicted, and personalized beliefs related with internal states. The HAPPI was developed to test the cognitive and behavioral processes affecting on these fluctuations. This study aimed to report the preliminary results of the Turkish adaptation of the HAPPI-61 and to examine its psychometric properties. The sample consisted of 353 individuals (244 W, 106 M, 3 declined to answer) with a mean age of 28.25 years. None of the participants had clinical diagnosis. The construct validity was examined through exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses. For the criterion validity, correlations between the HAPPI-TR and MDQ, HCL-32, ISS-TR were investigated. Cronbach’s alpha coefficients and test-retest correlations were calculated for testing the reliability. 52 items were represented as a result of the factor analysis. The internal consistency of the HAPPI-TR was .95 for the whole sample. The internal consistency of its two subscales were as follows: .94 for the ‘Conflicting Beliefs about Self and Others’ subscale and .88 for the ‘Conflicting Appraisals of Activation’ subscale. However, the 2-factor structure was not confirmed. The test-retest reliability was moderate (r = .43). Statistically significant correlations were found between the HAPPI-TR and MDQ, HCL-32 irritable/risk taking, HCL-32 impulsivity and ISS-TR. Although the two-factor structure could not be confirmed, the findings of this preliminary study were considered to be at an acceptable level. The current scale can be used for individuals having mood swings in order to evaluate internal states and to help to develop alternative ways. It is believed that examining the HAPPI-TR in different samples including individuals with bipolar disorder and performing comparative analyses will strengthen its psychometric properties.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 25 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Klinik Psikoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/klinikpsikoloji/issue/72273/1170030
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2628483
