Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Artificial Intelligence on Administrative Discretion and Decision- Making Mechanisms
Özet: Digitalization of the world, leads several legal problems. Debates continue in many areas, such as the legal personality of artificial intelligence and the responsibilities (legal-criminal). Furthermore, administrative law is likely to be affected by these discussions. Legal problems may arise if the administration uses artificial intelligence in doing business and making transactions. Some of the important issues that need to be explored include determining the role of artificial intelligence public service, ensuring public order, and deciding on the algorithms to use. The decisions made by the administration increasingly being influenced and artificial intelligence may later advence into decision-making mechanisms. If the administration uses automatic decision-making mechanisms, then the discretion of people over administrative acts and actions will be reduced. It is unlikely that there would be more legal issues in transactions where human influence is reduced. However, controlling administrative actions made by the software is a separate issue. To solve this problem, it is crucial that the algorithms are made in a non-discriminatory manner and are updated periodically. If necessary precautions are taken, better service will be provided to the citizens with administrative procedures performed by machines and human errors will be prevented. In contrast to people, machines and systems neither get tired nor distracted. Thus, there will be better compliance with the law in the performance of the work of the administration. Notwithstanding some automated systems (such as e-government) already in use today that provide continuous service to citizens, better services can be provided with artificial intelligence-enhanced systems. Such systems will reduce the workload of the administrative staff and allow them to work efficiently on task that are more important.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: İdare Hukuku ve İlimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iuihid/issue/68180/1074272
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2256306
