Makale Başlığı: Form Analysis of the Works Composed in the Nakış Form Transformed to Western Notation in the Hamparsum Notebook Named HDEF 8 in Ali Rifat Çağatay’s Collection
Özet: In music, form refers to the structure which is the method of expression is organizational of works. This organization lead to the works to be grouped within themselves. In Turkish music, although these forms are trying to be put into patterns, these patterns do not cover all musical structures. According to the Turkish Language Society, the meaning of the word "nakış" in music is "the one with two hanes instead of four of the beste and semai", and metaphorically it means "trick". Nakış, which is formed by the combination of the verb “to nakş” word in Arabic and the verb “to do” in Turkish, is used in the sense of "to decorate, and to embroider. Basically, it can be thought that it is a nakış structure with two hanes and terennüm, and a bit "tricky" in terms of performance, and almost embellished with long terennüm sections. The notebook titled "HDEF 8" in the archive of Ali Rifat Çağatay was written with the note Hamparsum. Archive of Ali Rifat Çağatay was shared with Nilgün Doğrusöz Dişiaçık by Alp Altıner in 2011. The study of the archive started with by the Ottoman-Turkish Music Research Group called "OTMAG", founded by Nilgün Doğrusöz Dişiaçık. Among these initiatives, many works have survived to the present thanks to the "Hamparsum note” developed by Hamparsum Limonciyan. In this study, the works in the form of Nakış in the notebook named HDEF 8 in Ali Rifat Çağatay's collection were examined. The sections separated in the work have been chosen on the lyrics and melody. The reserved melodies are named differently such as A1m, B2m and AT. When we look at the number of measures in the sections in the form schemes of the works, it has been determined that the long A chant sections are the sections that have the most measure in the work. Among the 19 works, only the formal analysis of “Cesm-i bed-kes be- cesm-i mestet ne-rezed” and “Dehr olmada bu sûr ile mahmûr-u meserret” were common.  By examining the connections between the melody and the lyrics of the works, their form structures were revealed. In terms of shedding light on the subject, the definitions of the nakış form in different sources are mentioned. The analysis of the 19 of the 20 works in the notebook called HDEF 8 and the definitions of the existing nakış forms were examined and determined. By using the statistics obtained from 19 works, the most used sections and diagrams were tried to be determined and interpreted.
Yazar isimleri: ['Tarık ÖZTÜRK']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Porte Akademik Müzik ve Dans Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/porteakademik/issue/72462/1097480
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2348813
