Makale Başlığı: Sezai Karakoç and conservatism
Özet: Conservatism is one of the oldest ideologies. His basic thesis is that societies accumulate a kind of wisdom in history and this is mostly hidden in traditions. It is not true that conservatives are totally against change. Rather, they favor a well-thought-out change. Change should be natural rather than disconnected, unplanned, and mechanical leaps. Just like nature, there must be constant and organic change. Many variants of conservatism have emerged over time. In terms of being in favor of the status quo and glorifying tradition, it is divided into derivatives such as Traditional conservatism or Traditionalism, Cultural conservatism, Social conservatism, Agrarianism. In terms of its relationship with different ideologies, some hybrid forms such as Nationalist conservatism, Religious conservatism, Monarchism, Neo-conservatism have emerged. Islamism, on the other hand, developed as a reactionary ideology against the increasing political, economic and cultural influence of the West in the Islamic world in the 19th century. With its pioneering names, it has been an ideological perspective that struggles with western imperialism on the one hand and traditional interpretations of Islam on the other. In this study, it is discussed which of the existing ideological positions of the poet Sezai Karakoç, with his aspects reflected in his literary works, is close. The effects of this position on his artist identity are discussed under different titles. The semantic universe that Karakoç knitted around the concept of civilization shows that he is a cultural conservative. According to him, the Turkish-Islamic civilization, which has reached today in a continuous line, should be revived and refreshed against the corruption and disintegration brought by modern times. In this context, Karakoç is a cultural conservative in the context of conservatism's change and status quo dilemma; In the context of the hybridization of conservatism with other ideologies, it is concluded that he is a religious conservative.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1190313
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2713342
