Makale Başlığı: The Examination of Effect of Ellagic Acid on Testicular Tissues of Rats Exposed to  Radiation
Özet: Aim: Oxidative stress plays a role in the pathogenesis of radiation induced male infertility. Ellagic acid; is a polyphenolic compound with antioxidant properties. The aim of the study is to investigate the effect of allygic acid on testicular tissue in exposed rats. Material-Method: In the study, 30 male Spraque-Dawley rats were used for 8 weeks. The rats were divided into five groups  n: 6 : group I  control , group II  radiation , group III  radiation + ellagic acid , group IV  ellagic acid , group V  corn oil . The rats in radiation group and radiation + ellajic acid group were exposed to a single dose of 8 Gy of radiation on the first day of study. The rats in radiation + ellajic acid group and ellajic acid group were given 12 mg / kg ellagic acid dissolved in corn oil for 7 weeks by oral gavage from the second day of study. At the end of the experiment period, all rats were decapitated. Testicular tissue removed. TUNEL method was applied with histochemical staining. Biochemical analyzes were performed. Results: In the histological evaluations, degeneration of seminiferous tubular germinal epithelium, vascular congestion, atrophic tubules, interstitial area, edema and immature cells spilled in the lumens of some tubules were detected in sections of radiation group. Significant improvements were observed in radiation + ellajic acid group compared to radiation group. When compared with control group, an increase in TUNEL positive cell number was detected in radiation group, but no increase in radiation + ellajic acid group was observed. Compared to control group, malondialdehyde  MDA  levels significantly increased, superoxide dismutase  SOD  activity decreased in radiation group; whereas in radiation + ellajic acid group, MDA level decreased and SOD activity increased. Conclusion: It has been determined that the radiation dose at the indicated dose damages the testicular tissue. Ellajic acid application; it has been observed that the antioxidant property significantly reduces the adverse effects of radiation
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ekim 2018
Dergi ismi: Annals of Health Sciences Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/annhealthscires/issue/65349/1006815
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2017119
