Makale Başlığı: The Source and the Process of Making New Rank Names Derived in the Republic Period
Özet: Ranks are important indicators in ensuring hierarchy and order in certain professional groups. One of the institutions where this word is important in terms of use is military service. The rank names used in this profession have undergone significant changes to the present day. The idea prevails that the empire in the process of collapse will be saved again and the disintegration can be prevented by the changes and modernization efforts in the military field in the Ottoman State. Changes made in the military sphere have led to a change in the organizational structure of the army and the creation of different ranks. With the fall of the Ottoman State and the adoption of a new state system, the republic, changes in the military field continued. In order to reach the level of successful civilizations, revolutions have been made in all areas related to society. As a result of the changes in the field of language, which is one of the most important elements of culture, Turkish has started to be preferred instead of quoted words. This period, which was led by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, is called “The Language Revolution”. This revolution, which positively reflected the increase in Turkish words in the language, has also led to the names of ranks in the military field. Mustafa Kemal Atatürk who introduced the terms of geometry into our language by Turkifying them. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has ensured that the necessary studies were carried out to Turkify the names of ranks in the military service profession, which was his main field of expertise. The purpose of writing this article is to determine how the new rank names derived in the 1930s were derived with what thinking at that time. For this purpose, the last period of the Ottoman Empire, the first years of the Republic and the changes carried out in the Language Revolution are compared and the process of change in the names of ranks is evaluated. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Erdal AYDIN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Bilecik Şeyh Edebali Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bseusbed/issue/68660/1032465
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2115300
