Makale Başlığı: Tele Health Applications in the Self-Management of  Hypertensive Patients: A Review
Özet: Developments in science and technology have been influential in the creation of new service approaches such as telehealth and telenursing. Telehealth applications are implemented to provide services such as remote health assessment, medical diagnosis, necessary intervention and guidance, and health counselling to people who cannot reach health services. Today, telehealth applications are seen among the approaches that contribute to the development of self-management skills and improving the quality of life, especially in individuals with chronic diseases. In chronic disease management; in addition to maintaining the treatment plan, it is important to increase the knowledge level of the patients with various training and support programs, to ensure compliance with the treatment and to gain self-management skills. Providing optimum blood pressure control in hypertensive patients is possible with effective disease management. Self-management support which is provided to hypertensive patients; it includes gaining knowledge, skills and confidence in disease management, providing resources to maintain self-care, supporting in the decision-making process, helping in diagnosing and coping with problems, and referral to community resources. Telehealth applications emerge as an alternative and innovative way of providing self-management support to hypertensive patients. The most preferred and widely used applications for hypertension management are mobile applications with monitoring facilities. With telehealth applications designed for hypertension self-management, patients can be followed up in terms of basic clinical information, training and counselling can be provided, and in this way, it is aimed to reduce hospital/emergency service admissions, support their adherence to treatment and reduce care costs. It is expected that the interest in telehealth and telenursing applications will gradually increase and become widespread with the increase in the number of patients requesting the service and the innovations in technology.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gonca DEVECİ', 'Hatice TEL AYDIN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Nefroloji Hemşireliği Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/hemsire/issue/72806/1167347
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2617324
