Makale Başlığı: Elderly burns; Our clinical experiences
Özet: Background: Though mortality rates have decreased with better understanding of burns’ pathophysiology and advanced monitoring, elderly burn patients are still a challenging health problem. The elderly population is increasing worldwide. The aim of this study is to investigate the outcomes of burns for elderly patients and increase medical, public and governmental awareness of the issue. Elderly people should be trained in preventive measures to diminish the number of burn accidents.Methods: Hospitalized patients between 2011 and 2019 were retrospectively studied. Age, gender, burned total body surface area (TBSA), burn agent, comorbidities, location of the burn injury, whether a house fire accompanied, and mortality rates were compared between adult patients (18 to 64 years old) and those who were elderly (65 years or older).Results: Of the 2258 patients, 285 (12.6%) were aged 65 or older. The burned TBSAs of the adult patients were larger than those of the elderly patients (p=0.019). Scalding and contact burns were more frequent among the elderly than the adults (p=0.001). The elderly had greater co-morbidities, were mostly burned at home and more house fires accompanied their injuries than those of the adults (p<0.001). Despite having lesser burned TBSAs, mortality rates were significantly higher in the elderly (p<0.001).Conclusions: As the elderly population increases worldwide, burn treatment facilities should be prepared for their increase in numbers and co-morbidities. To enforce preventive measures, awareness of the growing issue should be raised and public authorities should be alerted to their need to act.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ali Emre AKGÜN', 'Merve AKIN', 'İsa SÖZEN', 'Nihan TURHAN', 'Nermin Damla OKAY', 'Ahmet Çınar YASTI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Archives of Current Medical Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/acmr/issue/72847/1091483
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2324735
