Makale Başlığı: A Comparison of the Portraits of Sultan Ahmed III by Miniaturist Levnî and Painter Vanmour in Terms of Color and Composition with the Pedagogical Criticism Method
Özet: Levnî is an artist who produced his works by taking inspiration from the West without losing his traditional point of view. Vanmour, on the other hand, is an artist inspired by the East and reflects the Ottoman in his works while reflecting the European painting tradition at the same time. Both artists are important names who contributed to our cultural history by leaving original and realist works that document the period. In this research, produced from my doctoral thesis, the lives of Miniaturist Levnî and painter Vanmour, who left their mark on the Ottoman culture in the Tulip Era with their contributions, are discussed comprehensively together with their works. Since the works of the artists left to our day are documents of the period in which they lived, it is aimed to increase the recognition of both the artists and their works today. In this study, the works of both artists are compared in terms of color and composition by using the method of pedagogical criticism. Similarities and differences are revealed between the selected works produced by these two artists who approached the same events and people from an artistic point of view in the same period. As a result of this analysis and comparison, it is remarkable that Miniaturist Levnî, who took inspiration from the West without losing his traditional perspective, and painter Vanmour, who turned to the Ottoman with a European perspective, reflected the period in which they lived in the best way from two different perspectives. The common aspect of the works produced by two artists who have different cultural views in the same historical period is that they show universal cultural integrity. Both artists set an example for today's artists with their styles.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet ÖZKARTAL', 'Kamile AKIN']
Yayın Yılı: 5 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Bodrum Journal of Art and Design
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bodrum/issue/71127/1128538
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2477276
