Makale Başlığı: Sustainable City in the Perspective of European Union Policies
Özet: It is known that the rapid growth of the urban population by the industrialization brings out unconscious use of natural resources, environmental pollution and many other crises like that. For these reasons, urbanization is beginning to raise awareness among the majority of European countries, especially where sustainability must be ensured. Countries in Europe; the European Union provides texts that can lead to the regular development of cities within the context of urban sustainability, as it constitutes the most advanced urban regions of the world. Socio-economic, political and environmental policies in cities; it causes social problems such as immigration in cities, unemployment, distorted urbanization, housing problems, and necessitates regulations throughout the European Union. Unconsciously consumption of natural resources cities brings not only general but also local problems like infrastructure, transportation, health, traffic. The importance of sustainability in cities is becoming important, and the European Union has become the principle of the member countries to assess the urban problems correctly and seek solutions to these problems. In order to provide sustainable urbanization, people realize their basic needs while aiming to keep the prosperity level of the city at the most appropriate level, without destroying the environment, thinking about future generations. Member states of the European Union are in the framework of sustainable urban politics; Habitat I, II, III, Rio Declaration, World Urban Forum, European Union Environmental Action Programs, European Single Senate, European Urban Charter 1 and 2, European Spatial Development Perspective and so on. It is aimed that the member countries will contribute to the urban sustainability in the long term by harmonizing these documents with the urban policies. What is sustainability and what is sustainable urbanization, rapid population growth resulting from the increase of industrialization, and the situation in which the distorted urbanization obstructs sustainability in cities constitutes the scope of the study. Then, the aim of the study; in order to ensure sustainable urbanization, the extent to which the documents put together with the member countries in the perspective of European Union politics are solution-focused. Is the study; literature will be searched from academic sources, international agreements, laws and regulations
Yazar isimleri: ['Serkan ÖKTEN', 'Azize ÖKTEN']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Haziran 2018
Dergi ismi: Akademia Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asj/issue/40224/479047
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/568067
