Makale Başlığı: Navigation in Inland Waterways that Connect Black Sea to the Other Seas, and Obstruction of  Access to the Azov Sea
Özet: The Black Sea is considered a semi-closed sea. Access to other seas from inland waterways reduces the closure of the Black Sea somewhat. It is possible to access the Caspian Sea, the White Sea, the Baltic Sea and the North Sea from inland waterways. After invading and annexing the Russian Federation Crimea, the Kerch Strait, Azov Sea, Don-Volga Channel largely closed the route. The purpose of the research is to determine the influence of inland waterways on the peace, security, and welfare of the Black Sea region. The Tuna-Main-Ren Canal and the Don-Volga Canal are important inland waterways. It is important to identify the causes of the discrepancy in achieving peace and prosperity along the two inland waterways. Data of the research has been collected from maps, agreements, photos, video records, statistics, news, cases. Validity and reliability of all reached data has been neutrally evaluated, the criticism and recommendations of two expert researchers has been taken into consideration. Since some recent statistics were not published, they could not be included in the research. Since the study was completed at the end of 2021, the influence of the Russian Federation’s invasion of Ukraine on access to the inland waterways is beyond the scope of the research. It has been observed that there is an interaction between the inland waterways transport, the highways transport, railways transport and sea transport. The openness or closure of transport routes is an important indicator for peace and welfare or war and poverty. Russian Federation has invaded and annexed Crimea and subsequently it partly has blocked Azov Sea and the Don-Volga Canal to Ukraine and Caspian Sea countries. The invasion and the annexation disrupted transportations in Azov Sea and Don-Volga Canal. As a result, these events seriously affected peace and welfare along Don-Volga Canal and in the Black Sea region.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ali BAŞARAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Barış Araştırmaları ve Çatışma Çözümleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yalovabaccd/issue/72346/1135800
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2507197
