Makale Başlığı: THE ROLE OF FEAR OF POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE EVALUATION, AND DIFFICULTIES IN EMOTION REGULATION ON SOCIAL ANXIETY SYMPTOMS AND PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL
Özet: Fear of negative evaluation is one of the main features of social anxiety disorder. On the other hand; recent studies on social anxiety disorder emphasize the importance of fear of positive evaluation and difficulties in emotion regulation. Although research has shown that fear of positive evaluation and difficulties in emotion regulation contribute to the symptoms of social anxiety disorder, no study has addressed these concepts together. In addition, it is not clear how fear of positive evaluation and difficulties in emotion regulation contribute to the symptoms of social anxiety disorder. Based on these shortcomings in the literature, this study aims to examine the role of fear of positive and negative evaluations and difficulties in emotion regulation on the symptoms of social anxiety disorder and performance appraisal. The sample consists of 170 university students studying at various universities in Izmir. Participants first filled out a battery of scales including demographic information form, Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale, Fear of Negative Evaluation Scale-Short Form, Fear of Positive Evaluation Scale, Depression Anxiety Stress Scale-Short Form, and Difficulties in Emotion Regulation Scale-Short Form. After about 10-15 days, they carried out a videotaped speech performance and then evaluated their performance through the Speech Performance Scale. Hierarchical regression analysis results show that fear of positive evaluation, fear of negative evaluation and difficulties in emotion regulation positively predict social anxiety disorder symptoms and negatively predict performance appraisal controlling for gender and depression. In other words, fear of positive and negative evaluations and emotional regulation difficulties are associated with increased social anxiety symptoms and negative subjective evaluations of performance. The findings are discussed in light of the relevant literature.
Yazar isimleri: ['Koray AKKUŞ', 'Doç. Dr. Günay Serap TEKİNSAV SÜTCÜ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Erciyes Akademi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/erciyesakademi/issue/72599/1159202
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2585004
