Makale Başlığı: The Importance of Tennis-Themed Fitness Training in Biomotor Gain
Özet: In order to prevent problems related to inactivity, it is necessary to train and develop biomotor skills such as strength, speed, endurance, flexibility at an early age. With its nature appealing to all ages, tennis can be a suitable exercise for gaining movement and skill. The aim of this study is to examine the effects of tennis themed fitness training on the biomotor abilities of sedentary individuals aged 12-16. For this purpose, 21 sedentary individuals were included in the study. During the 12-week training, all participants participated in tennis-themed fitness training with movements including music, rhythm, strength, endurance, speed and coordination exercises. In the pre-test and post-test stages of the study, in order to determine the biomotor development of the participants; balance, flexibility, speed, agility, hand grip, vertical jump, anaerobic power, aerobic power, one-two leg horizontal jump, push-ups, sit-ups, plank and squat tests were used. SPSS 25.0 statistical program was used for the statistical analysis of the data obtained pre-test and post-test stages of the research. The results showed that the differences between the participants' balance, flexibility, speed, agility, hand grip, vertical jump, anaerobic power, aerobic power, one-two leg horizontal jump, push-ups, sit-ups, plank and squat pretest and posttest measurement results were significant (p<0.05). As a conclusion, it was determined that the sports training prepared with 12-week tennis-themed fitness training had positive effects on the biomotor abilities of the sedentary participants aged 12-16. Tennis-themed fitness training contributes to the biomotor development of individuals and accelerates their performance development.
Yazar isimleri: ['Cengiz ÖLMEZ', 'Halit ŞAR', 'Selami YÜKSEK']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Gümüşhane Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gumussagbil/issue/72733/1137550
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2514055
