Makale Başlığı: A VALIDITY AND RELIABILITY STUDY OF THE CREATIVITY SUPPORTING HOME ENVIRONMENT SCALE
Özet: In this study, it is aimed to improve the “Creativity-Supporting Home Environment Scale” for the purpose of determining the level of creativity in the home environment of parents with children aged 3-6 years old. Research study groups were composed of 500 parents across various provinces of Turkey. The scale items written in the context of the literature were presented to field experts for their opinion in accordance with the scale’s purpose, and the content validity index was calculated as proof of the scale’s content validity (.89). A pretest application of the scale was conducted in accordance with the expert opinion, and the items were examined for their distinctiveness. A test application was conducted for the purpose of demonstrating the factor structure of the scale, and whether or not the data was appropriate for factor analysis by using KMO and Bartlett statistics. Factor analysis based upon principal component analysis was performed with the optimum application of parallel analysis, and according to both parallel analysis and scree plot, it was decided that the structure was four-dimensional. The percentage of the factors explaining the total variance was established as 49.9%. The item test correlation values of the items in each factor were found to be above .30 in accordance with the item analysis results. Two items that did not fulfill the criteria were removed from the scale by performing a confirmatory factor analysis to verify the structure. Factor loadings for 28 items in the scale were found to be higher than .30 and with error variances below .90. It was found that the McDonald’s omega coefficients were between .71 and .88, and the Composite reliability coefficients were between .70 and .84 in the calculation of the reliability of the scale scores for each of the scale’s four dimensions. For the whole scale, the stratified alpha reliability coefficient was calculated as .87. The obtained findings demonstrate that the “Creativity-Supporting Home Environment Scale” is a valid and reliable scale.
Yazar isimleri: ['Züleyha HALAT', 'H. Elif DAĞLIOĞLU', 'Fazilet Gül İNCE ARACI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: International Online Journal of Primary Education (IOJPE)
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iojpe/issue/68516/1053531
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2175352
