Makale Başlığı: Offshore wind farms energy injection in the electrical grid - Lithium battery to mitigate power fluctuations
Özet: The wind farm energy injection in the electrical grid generates the economic and technical challenges which must to be solved for successful large scale wind energy integration in electrical grids. Due to wind speed variations, the wind farm output power presents the fluctuating components which are not compatible to the electrical grid requirements. Today, this problem is a major challenge with the wind farm projects increasing in the world. Large power variations cause the deviations of rms voltage and the frequency compared to nominal values in point of the coupling. These deviations cause generally the protective equipment activation which causes a disconnection of wind farms from the grid. To avoid these problems, the electrical grid managers use the grid code requirements to regulate the wind energy injection process in the grid. Using energy storage devices such as a lithium battery or ultracapacitors to compensate the power fluctuations from wind farm is an interesting solution.  This paper deals this issue to improve the injected energy in electrical grid by the wind farm using lithium battery. Proposed approach allows compensating the wind energy fluctuations, so that the energy destined to electrical grid becomes compatible to electrical grid code requirements. Studied system configuration includes a wind farm with rated power of 300MW, a lithium battery module with a maximum power of 30MW and electrical grid. Lithium battery is connected to grid through an inverter and the power fluctuations from wind farm are assigned to battery. To show the performances of the control strategy, some simulation results are presented and analyzed using Matlab/SimPowerSystem software. 
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Aralık 2015
Dergi ismi: International Journal Of Renewable Energy Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijrer/issue/16069/167891
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/147994
