Makale Başlığı: Development of Electronic Data Collection Hive System for Use in Precision Beekeeping
Özet: Beekeeping is one of the important branches of livestock. Although Turkey has an important place in the world in the number of colonies, it cannot show the same success in honey production. This is because of the inefficient production. In order to overcome this inefficiency, it is necessary to develop and implement the scientific and modern activities in beekeeping as well as in other animal husbandry branches. Precision livestock has become an important issue in animal production. The basic goal in precision livestock production is to produce the most efficiently by meeting the needs of the animals adequately and economically. The vital activities of animals must be controlled to determine their needs. This is accomplished by ensuring continuous traceability by using electronic systems and information systems. It is considered that the application of precision livestock for beekeeping will reduce workload and increase honey yield. The purpose of Precision beekeeping is to be able to reach all the information needed about the bee colonies grown quickly and to plan the most economical and effective maintenance work by using this information. In order to achieve this, the beekeepers must constantly collect and record data. The reasonable thing about beekeeping is that it does not disturb the colony by opening the beehives as little as possible while performing the examinations and care of the colonies. Frequent opening of the hives and data collection do not give good results in terms of beekeeping. For this reason, there is a need for electronic systems to collect the necessary data for bee colonies. In this study, an electronic hive system was designed to collect data for precision beekeeping.
Yazar isimleri: ['Adil Koray YILDIZ', 'Hasan ULUTAŞ', 'Cemil ALTIN']
Yayın Yılı: 13 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Bozok Tarım ve Doğa Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bojans/issue/73810/1206906
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2781477
