Makale Başlığı: Anatolia in the Persian/Achaemenid Period:  A Comparative Interregional Evaluation
Özet: The Persian/Achaemenid Period in Anatolia continued for more than 200 years. This period had an impact in many parts of Anatolia. However, the remains of this period vary regionally. Although the archaeological findings help us understand this period, Persian traces are still found in the researches carried out in a limited number of settlements in Anatolia. Traces of Persian archaeological data are better observed in Western Anatolia and its surroundings than in other regions. In the light of recent findings, it has been attempted to investigate the relations between these regions, particularly regarding ceramic findings. Therefore, the reflections of this period are observed more intensely in Western Anatolia and its surroundings, limitedly in Central Anatolia and its surroundings, and even less in Eastern Anatolia and its surroundings. Undoubtedly, one of the reasons for this situation is the distribution rates of archaeological researches by regions and the insufficient level of research regarding this period. In this article the Persian Period in Western, Eastern and Central Anatolia and their surroundings will be discussed by applying a comparative evaluation method. First of all, within the Persian Period, archaeological data retrieved in Eastern, Western and Central Anatolia and the nearby settlements will be presented together with sub-headings. Then, in the light of the available data, the problematic phenomena still under discussion among specialists will be evaluated by applying a causality based approach taking into account the information provided by ancient sources and limited epigraphic data. Thus, we attempt to explain different and common characteristics of archaeological findings from this period in the three regions and their surroundings.
Yazar isimleri: ['Murat TOSUN']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: OANNES - Uluslararası Eskiçağ Tarihi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/oannes/issue/72619/1065641
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2222869
