Makale Başlığı: Metaverse and Effect of Marketing
Özet: Digital technologies; It is changing business models, business environments, markets and the marketing communications paradigm. Especially with the coronavirus pandemic, world culture has ceased to be face-to-face and has led to the proliferation of online cultures using digital technologies. Along with this trend, besides technological developments such as virtual reality and augmented reality, the concept of Metaverse, which is expressed as a 3D virtual world, draws attention in many areas such as culture, art, education and tourism as of 2021. Metaverse is expected to be the new marketing platform of the future to present and bring all kinds of brands to life in the 3D interactive digital space. Metaverse can be a smart way for brands to create a customer experience by enhancing the functionality of their products and services. The aim of this study; It aims to reveal the concept of Metaverse, which will revolutionize almost every sector and can be considered as the 3D version of the internet, and to explain its effect on marketing at a conceptual level. Since there are only a limited number of studies in the literature, exploratory research based on the literature was conducted in this study. Studies on metaverse marketing have been examined in the literature. As a result; It can be said that businesses are still in their infancy regarding metaverse, ultra-fast internet should be the most important factor for businesses to be successful in metaverse applications, businesses can support service supply ecosystems, and brands can provide a hedonic and utilitarian customer experience limited to imagination with metaverse applications at the beginning level. Also, in the metaverse environment, businesses can market physical and digital products and services, businesses can reduce production costs in creative activities, generate income through NFTs, brands can maximize their creativity, increase brand awareness, test new product design ideas, customers can all shopping in the virtual store. It has been concluded that they can see their experiences, collect data about the customer and develop their physical stores with this data.
Yazar isimleri: ['Esma DURUKAL', 'Ece ARMAĞAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İnsan ve Toplum Bilimleri Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/itobiad/issue/72362/1103557
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2374631
