Makale Başlığı: Determination of Some Chemical Characteristics and Volatile Compounds of Olive Oils Obtained from Bayramiç Mount Ida Region
Özet: Fruit growing is the main subsistence for the people living in Bayramiç region of Çanakkale province for centuries. Olive cultivation is an important branch of fruit growing activities in the region. This study was carried out in order to determine the quality characteristics and aroma compounds of olive oils obtained from Ayvalık olive cultivar grown in Bayramiç region of Çanakkale province and Balıkesir province Edremit Gulf region. For this purpose, olive trees were harvested in 3 different maturity periods (green, veraison, black) from 9 different villages of Bayramiç district of Çanakkale province and 9 different regions in Edremit Gulf. At the end of the research, there were not any significant differences found between regions in terms of maturity index of harvested fruits and quality characteristics of olive oils obtained from fruits. On the other hand, there were significant differences were found in both regions in volatile compounds. Especially aldehyde, alcohol and ester compound groups were important results. The difference between the aroma compounds of both regions is thought to be due to climatological differences. The basis of the climatological differences is that the Bayramiç region falls to the northwest of peak of Mount Ida and is located at a high altitude. Edremit Gulf region is located on the southern slope of the same mountain. In addition to having high oxygen content in both directions of Mount Ida, the cool winds coming from the North Aegean Sea of Bayramiç region and the combination of iodized air with high oxygen has provided an advantage in terms of olive cultivation and olive oil aroma. As a relatively chilly place for olive cultivation, Bayramiç region has gained different values in terms of positive aroma compounds in olive oil.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Ali GÜNDOĞDU']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2020
Dergi ismi: Lapseki Meslek Yüksekokulu Uygulamalı Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ljar/issue/59169/834035
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1424626
