Makale Başlığı: New Generation Fund Type for Social Responsibilities: Sustainable (ESG) Investment Funds
Özet: The social responsibility doctrine and sustainable (ESG) funds, which emerged as a result of changing perceptions in the business world and capital markets, were emphasized in the study. The theoretical background of the study is based on the fact that the traditional policy of the understanding of the task of the top managers of the companies is to maximize profit only, has lost its validity today. This approach has left its place to the view that social responsibility policies should be implemented more by companies. According to PWC, the share of these funds in Europe in 2025 will constitute approximately 50% of the total fund size managed. BIST-100 (XU100) and BIST Sustainability Index (XUSRD) data for the 2014-2022 period were analyzed and the return performance, risk level and correlation with each other of both indices were calculated within the scope of the study. Accordingly, it has been observed that the BIST Sustainability Index did not outperform BIST-100 in the years (2015 and 2018) in which Borsa Istanbul suffered losses. It has been determined that the standard deviation (risk level) of the XUSRD index in Turkey is higher than the BIST-100 index, contrary to the literature and the US financial markets. In the study, the daily volatility (fluctuation) map of the XUSRD index was created. Similarly, it was observed that returns were realized in a slightly wider band gap compared to the BIST-100 general index. In the light of the aforementioned data, it has been concluded that for an investor investing in the Turkish stock markets, the BIST Sustainability index should not be considered as a hedging tool to reduce the risk in BIST-100 investments.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hamit ÖZMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Bankacılık ve Sermaye Piyasası Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bspad/issue/71245/1103970
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2376315
