Makale Başlığı: Value Relevance Analysis of Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure with Board of Director Diversity as The Moderating Variable
Özet: Value relevance is the ability of information to assist report in making users being able to easily make decision. A corporate disclosure is said to be relevant if the information can influence the economic decisions of its users. One of the corporate disclosures is about the companies’ social responsibility. This study aims to see the value relevance on CSR Disclosure. The object of this research is all companies listed on the IDX in 2018 – 2020 which publish annual report with a total of 317 observation companies. The data used is taken from the company's annual report. This study examines the effect of CSR Disclosure on value relevance with board diversity (gender, age, and education) as the moderating variable and also ROA as the controlling variable. By using statistical descriptive tests and regression analysis, it is ensured that CSR Disclosure has no effect on the value of relevance, meaning that it does not affect the reactions and considerations of investors' decisions. The moderating variable, has also not been able to provide a significant influence on CSR Disclosure and its effect to the value relevance even though all the moderating variables give impacts in the relationship between research model. On the other hand, ROA has a significant impact in ERC which means ROA has a positive and very strong impact on the value of relevance. This is due to investors considerations that are still focused on the company’s financial performance compared to the company’s non-financial performance companies.
Yazar isimleri: ['Diajeng Fitri WULAN', 'Lindrianasari LİNDRİANASARİ', 'Yunia AMELİA', 'Rindu Rika GAMAYUNİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası İşletme ve Ekonomi Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/uiecd/issue/71010/1092420
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2328739
