Makale Başlığı: Analysis of Discrimination for Orthopedic Disabled Women in terms of Gender: Example of Zonguldak Province
Özet: Disability has emerged as an area that has been researched in every period in the historical process. The number of studies dealing with the problems experienced by people with disabilities is quite high. Apart from disabled individuals, another group that is isolated from social life and exposed to discrimination is women. Like disabled individuals, women have also distanced themselves from social life due to discrimination. In the literature review on the subject, it is seen that the number of studies dealing with the discrimination that only one of these two groups is exposed to is high. However, both women and persons with disabilities are ex- posed to multiple discrimination, rather than a single discrimination. For this reason, the main purpose of the research is to bring a sociological perspective to the discrimination of women with disabilities by examining the discrimination that women with disabilities face with a theoretical framework. Another purpose of the study, which was prepared using the qualitative research method, is to reveal the discrimination that orthopedically disabled women experience due to gender. Since it was aimed to work on a population with a large number of disabled people in the research, Zonguldak province, which is the 21st province with the highest number of disabled population in Turkey, was determined as the study universe of the research. Since the sample is a difficult group to reach, 15 orthopedically disabled women selected using the purposeful sampling method participated in the study. A semi-structured interview form was used in the research and descriptive analysis technique was used in the analysis of the data. Data; Women with disabilities have been interpreted under the headings of being exposed to violence as individuals, participation  in  social  life,  professions, housewives, motherhood, being a spouse and kinship role. In the study, it was determined that disabled women have problems in meeting their daily needs, and they face obstacles from their families and close circles in their education life. It has been determined that disabled women, who are faced with problems due to their disability in working life, especially by their employers, their families and close circles, are opposed to getting married and having children because they think that they cannot be good wives and mothers at the point of marriage decision. Finally, it was revealed that the participants could not get support from their spouses in the fulfillment of housework, and when they could not do these tasks due to their disabilities, they experienced problems with their spouses, up to violence and divorce.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gürcan BAL']
Yayın Yılı: 23 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye İnsan Hakları ve Eşitlik Kurumu Akademik Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tihek/issue/72572/1119990
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2441844
