Makale Başlığı: Using Principal Component Analysis to Identify Mortality Rates of Covid-19 Patients and Patients at High Risk of Death
Özet: The Covid-19 virus emerged in 2019 and spread all over the world in a short time. It caused millions of people to be infected and hundreds of thousands to die. The number of cases is increasing day by day and new variants of the virus are emerging. Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) tests are used to detect people with this disease. It is very important to examine the conditions of the people with the disease and to determine the intensive care and mortality rates in advance. In this study, Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was used as a feature extraction method to determine mortality rates from Covid-19 patients, and the successful results of the method were demonstrated with the most popular machine learning techniques. Machine learning techniques used in the study are K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN), Linear Discrimination Analysis (LDA), Extra Trees, Random Tree, Rep Tree and Naive Bayes algorithms. In the performance evaluation of these techniques, Accuracy, Precision, Sensitivity, Rms, F-score values were calculated. In addition, ROC Curves and Confusion matrices were examined and the results were compared. As a result, it was seen that the best performance was obtained with the use of Linear Discrimination Analysis (PCA+LDA) after applying Principal component analysis. With the PCA+LDA application, an accuracy rate of 96.39% was obtained. In the article, it has also been revealed that Pneumonia, Diabetes, COPD and Asthma patients, Pregnant, Elderly and Intubated people are more affected and the risk of death is higher from the Covid- 19 virus by using feature extraction. This study is important in terms of examining the lethality of virus variants, taking the necessary precautions for the treatment of risky patients isolation of patients at risk of death, and improving hospital capacity planning.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ebru EFEOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Zeki Sistemler Teori ve Uygulamaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jista/issue/70283/1082310
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2287757
