Makale Başlığı: Investigation of Elementary Mathematics Teaching Undergraduate Students' Content Knowledge on Vector Product
Özet: This research aims to determine the knowledge level of the second year undergraduate students of primary education mathematics teaching about vector multiplication and their views on analytical geometry and to examine these in terms of gender variable. In addition, it was aimed to investigate the relationship between the knowledge level of the students on vector multiplication and their general views on analytical geometry. The sample of the research consists of 2nd year undergraduate students studying primary school mathematics teaching at Buca Education Faculty in the fall semester of the 2020-2021 academic year. In the research, firstly, a 16-item test including vector multiplication was applied. The second data collection tool is the "Analytical Geometry Attitude and Self-Efficacy" scale developed by Ilgün, Azak, and Takunyacı (2012). The general scanning model was preferred in the study. As a result of the research, it was concluded that undergraduate students were successful in vector product and the vector product success scores of the students did not make a significant difference according to the gender variable. When the mean scores of the undergraduate students' general views on analytical geometry were examined, it was concluded that the sub-dimensions of the scale, self-efficacy and achievement requirement were high, but the difficulty sub-dimension was moderate. It was concluded that the general views and sub-dimensions of undergraduate students towards analytical geometry did not differ significantly according to gender. According to the result of the last sub-problem examined by the research, it was determined that there was a high level, positive and significant relationship between the undergraduate students' learning level of vector multiplication and their views on analytical geometry.
Yazar isimleri: ['Süha YILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Active Learning
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijal/issue/70606/1057182
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2189537
