Makale Başlığı: 3D modeling of historical artifacts with terrestrial photogrammetric method: Roman sarcophagus and tomb stele example
Özet: Many societies, civilizations and states have lived on the lands of Anatolia, the cradle of cultures and civilizations, from the past to the present. Each of these civilizations and states has left many works. It is very important to protect the material and moral works left to us, and transfer them to the next generations. Documentation studies should be carried out for this purpose. There are many methods for performing documentation work. The most important of these methods is the studies in the field of photogrammetry. With the photogrammetry method, the objects are modeled in three dimensions (3D) and recorded in the computer environment, and these data can be used at any time for the repair or reconstruction of the work in case of any deformation. The concept of 3D is the concept that emerges by knowing the width, height and height dimensions of the objects. One of the methods that can be used to model objects in 3D is the terrestrial photogrammetry method. With the terrestrial photogrammetry method, after the necessary data are collected from the objects, a 3D model is obtained using various software in the computer environment. In the modeling phase, it is very important to find the appropriate software. In this study, it was aimed to model the sarcophagus and tomb stele from the Roman period in Aksaray Museum using two different software. Agisoft Metashape and Pix4d software were preferred for 3D modeling. The results obtained from the software was compared in terms of the number of photos and the number of point clouds used and location accuracy. It has been observed that the error values found by the square mean error method in Agisoft software are lower than in the Pix4d software. It was observed that the Pix4d software produced more point clouds while modeling. An equal number of photographs were used in modelling.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gizem BAŞ', 'Aydan YAMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 9 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Cultural Heritage and Science
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cuhes/issue/71227/1125578
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2464695
