Makale Başlığı: The Relationship of Social Values and Religiousness in Secondary Students
Özet: Secondary school students are considered to be in adolescence (14-18 years). Adolescence is one of the critical periods in people's lives. The adolescent individual, who experiences, biological, physical and emotional changes during this period, is under the influence of these changes while constructing his/her self. It can be stated that social values, one of the variables of the study, have a very important effect on the social construction of the self, which constitutes an important part of this construction process. In this context, the study examines the relationship between social values and religiosity in secondary school students aged 14-18. Thus, it is understood that adolescents who experience a critical threshold and undergo changes internalize social values classified as family, traditional, scientific, political, work-work and religious values. In addition, it is aimed to understand the correlation between their social values and their dimensions of faith, emotion, worship and influence, and their religiosity.  Anatolian, Science, Vocational and IHL high school students in Pursaklar district of Ankara were selected as the sample group. The questionnaire applied to the selected sample group was composed of Bolat's "Multidimensional Social Values Scale" and Gülmez's "Religiousness Scale" questions and demographic variables. The data obtained in the study were analyzed by the SPSS program. According to the results obtained, there is a significant relationship between social values and religiosity in adolescents.  Likewise, it has been determined that the existence of social values is a factor that positively affects religiosity.
Yazar isimleri: ['Betül DOĞAN SARIKAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Analytic Divinity
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jad/issue/73778/1190175
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2712804
