Makale Başlığı: Toxicological Investigation of Aqueous extract of Ziziphus mauritiana Leaves on Wistar Rats
Özet: Objective: Plant parts have been useful for food and remedies to various disease conditions for man long ago, but few have been studied for their toxicological effects. The aim of this study was to evaluate the phytochemical constituents and toxicological impacts of aqueous extract (AqE) Ziziphus mauritiana leaves on Wistar rats.Material-Method: The plant material was identified and authenticated at the harberium of  Bayero University Kano and extraction were carried out by maceration. Phytochemical screening was carried-out using standard methods while administration of the extract was orally. Liver and kidney functional parameters were evaluated using standard kits and the histopathological evaluation were carried out according to the standard method.Results: Qualitative phytoconstituents screening revealed the presence of all Alkaloids, Saponin. Glycosides, tannin, flavonoids and others except anthraquinones while the quantitative screen showed phenol having the highest concentration while alkaloids have the lowest concentration. Acute toxicity revealed that the extract is non-toxic with LD50 above 5000 mg/kg body weight (BW), while subchronic toxicological evaluation revealed no significant adverse effect on all haematological parameters except WBC while the liver function parameters revealed an increase in serum GGT activity at 400 mg/kg body weight  and the kidney function parameters showed alteration in serum creatinine, sodium, potassium, and bicarbonate concentrations. Significant effects on liver/body weight ratio at 400 and 1000 mg/kg BW was observed. Histoarchitectural alteration was observed in liver and kidney histopathological evaluation.Conclusion: The observation from this research indicates that prolonged administration of this extract may lead the severe adverse effects on the biological system.
Yazar isimleri: ['Tajudeen OWOLARAFE', 'Godwin IHEGBORO', 'Kailani SALAWU', 'Chimaobi ONONAMADU', 'Mujıburrahman FADILU', 'Bashir MUSA']
Yayın Yılı: 5 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Traditional and Complementary Medicine Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijtcmr/issue/71903/1056770
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2187943
