Makale Başlığı: Examination of scales developed/adapted on distance education
Özet: Distance education is an educational practice concept that has been in the literature since the 1700s, when the idea of education being accessible was adopted. It has come to life in applications in different forms, from the years when education was seen as a mere transfer of knowledge, to the years when technological developments accelerated, and transnational classes could be formed. Due to the mandatory pandemic conditions experienced in 2020 and whose effects were observed at the global level, discussions, and studies on distance education in the field of educational sciences gained momentum and became one of the important concepts. This situation has also guided the scale development studies on distance education, and it is aimed to measure the concept of distance education by associating it with many factors such as attitude, satisfaction, and perception. However, in the literature review, no content analysis was found regarding the scales developed/adapted for distance education. The aim of this study; The aim of this study is to examine the distance education scales developed in Turkish and adapted to Turkish for higher education students. In this context, scale development and adaptation studies related to the concept of distance education in Turkish with higher education students in the study group were scanned through Google Scholar, TOAD and ResearchGate databases, and the scales developed/adapted were examined in terms of sub-dimensions, distribution by years, scale types, number of items and scale types analyzed. The research is a qualitative study in which document analysis method is used. In the research, 22 scale development/adaptation studies were examined by scanning model method. According to the results, it was seen that the scale development/adaptation studies were carried out mostly in 2021 (6), the development studies (17) were dominant, the number of items in the scales was in the range of 21-30 items (8), and it was developed in a 5-point Likert type (20). It has been shown that / is adapted.
Yazar isimleri: ['Rabia EROL', 'Menekşe ESKİCİ']
Yayın Yılı: 10 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Educational Technology and Online Learning
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jetol/issue/72940/1149215
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2559232
