Makale Başlığı: THE THREE BEAUTIES OF THE POETRY: HUSN-I MATLAʻ, HUSN-I TAKHALLUS, HUSN-I MAQTAʻ
Özet: It is noteworthy that in some publications on poetry in Turkey, the three rhetoric terms are used differently from the classical sources. This study shows how choosing one and forgetting the others among various terms that meet the same concept affects many other terms related to it. In this framework, the most well-known terms related to ghazal and qasida were discussed: maṭlaʻ (first couplet of a poem), makhlaṣ (proem and/or pseudonym), maqṭaʻ (last couplet), ḥusn-i maṭlaʻ, ḥusn-i takhalluṣ, and ḥusn-i maqṭaʻ. The reasons for this change attributed to Muallim Naci, one of the last period intellectuals of the Ottoman Empire, were investigated by looking at Turkish, Persian, and Urdu sources after Arabic classical rhetoric sources. As a result, the belief that the appearance of this change was quite distant in terms of both geography and time became stronger. In the Ottoman geography, the first different definition of ḥüsn-i maṭlaʿ is seen in Mustakimzade Suleyman Efendi's small treatise called Iṣṭılāḥātuʾş-Şiʿriyye in the 18th century. However, it is more likely that the real center of this change is not Istanbul but India. Although the sources found in that region are not older than Muallim Naci, a couplet given by Naci as an example strengthens this possibility. The famous Sabk-e Hindi poet Shawkat of Bukhārī's poem, in which he describes ḥusn-i maṭlaʿ as a separate couplet from the maṭla, makes us think that this change is related to Sabk-e Hindi. Moreover, there is a similar practice in an ode by Nedim, the famous poet of the 18th century Tulip Era. This finding also reminds us of the necessity of detailed research on Ottoman-Indian relations in the field of culture and arts.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ebubekir Sıddık ŞAHİN']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Ankara Üniversitesi Dil ve Tarih-Coğrafya Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dtcfdergisi/issue/70281/1118920
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2437525
