Makale Başlığı: Surveillance Flow: Culture in Byung-Chul Han's the Performance Society
Özet: Byung-Chul Han, one of the most influential philosophers and theorists of recent times, discusses the relationship between culture and power and revises the concept of disciplinary society. Grounding this revision on the concepts of performance and transparency in particular, Han has followed an approach close to that of Foucault. According to Foucault, the powers construct the subject through the concepts he calls dispositive, and this construction is inured to the subject through experiences. While dispositives gain importance as a recipe for making subjectivity meaningful in late capitalist societies, they are utilized by different theorists in their social readings as guiding tools. Han chooses the concept of surveillance as a dispositive in his works, while he prefers the concepts of performance and transparency as a power technique. The study aims to discuss Han's revision of the concept of disciplinary society within the context of the cultural acclimatization applied by powers on the subject, using the interpretivist technique from qualitative research methods. According to political psychology, which has sprung from the intersection of politics and psychology, culture is functionalized by powers to exert an acclimatization effect on society. Ideologies pass to the subjects through the acclimatization that occurs at the moments of encounter and spread through the interaction. In the context of this study, the timeline on social media, which implicates surveillance flow, is considered a suitable place for cultural acclimatization to be carried out by spreading ideologies. According to the data obtained in the study, in today's post-modern society, the powers have primarily switched to a performance-based paradigm from a discipline-based one. Powers build a palliative society that has repressed its sufferings, that aims not only to rehabilitate the bodies but also to control the minds, that encourages the individual to continue their performance despite getting tired, and thus a society that keeps the belief alive that there are happy subjects.
Yazar isimleri: ['Anıl DURMUŞAHMET']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: 4. BOYUT Medya ve Kültürel Çalışmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dortboyut/issue/73437/1204965
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2773659
