Makale Başlığı: Examination of Students with Math Learning Difficulties' Understanding Related to the Concept of Fraction
Özet: This study aims to deeply analyze the thinking, conception, and understanding of the preliminary concepts involved in the formation fraction concept of students with mathematics learning difficulties. The research was designed with a case study, one of the qualitative research methods, and the participants in the study participants consisted of seven students with mathematics learning difficulties. Participants studying in the 5th, 6th, and 7th grades were selected by purposive sampling. The Data was collected through semi-structured clinical interviews with 48 questions about the preliminary concepts involved in the formation fraction concept. Questions were prepared by the researcher and analyzed by the descriptive analysis method. As a result of the analysis, students were found to be aware equal sharing (for a total) means dividing the sum into equal parts and sharing the parts. They can also split a total and repeat the unite part for control, verbally express the fraction represented by the model as a unit fraction, and compare a collection of parts expressed by a simple fraction with the total when adding. Results indicated that participants could compare and correctly write fractions symbolically. In addition, the deficiencies in measurement concepts such as unit and unitization constitute an obstacle to forming the measurement meaning of fractions for them. They also have difficulty in separating a certain number of given objects in a way that equals a given number of people/things,  deciding whether the given collection of parts is equal or no, and determining according to the physical appearance of the parts rather than the equivalent amount of the received quantity. Their understanding of the meaning of the numerator and denominator is also limited. Further, they have difficulty verbally expressing the fractions and creating a model of the fractions that represent numbers greater than one,  focusing only on the part-sum meaning of the fraction and acquiring the concept of equivalence of fractions in comparing and ordering the quantities represented by the fraction.
Yazar isimleri: ['Cansu BAKIRCI SAYMAZ', 'Ziya ARGÜN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Gazi Eğitim Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gebd/issue/73565/1108897
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2396567
