Makale Başlığı: Supervision of Group Counseling Practicum with Multiple Supervision Models: Opinions of Master Students
Özet: This study aims to examine the opinions and remarks of the master students on multiple supervision models of group counseling. Five counselors, who are master students in Psychological Counseling and Guidance department of a state university in Istanbul attended to this study. Results of the content analysis yielded that counselors had positive emotions, such as excitement, happiness, and trust related to peer, group and triple supervision in group counseling at the beginning of the process and positive thoughts and emotions about working with peer supervisor. The counselors considered experienced supervisors, easily accessible peer supervisors, and supportive functions, friendly and sincere attitudes of peer supervisors as advantages. Counselors seem to be greatly satisfied with supervisor and peer supervisors, positive about working again with the same supervisors in triadic and peer supervision future experience. However, counselors regarded inexperienced peers as a disadvantage. On the other hand, there were counselors who think that the characteristics of the supervisor and peer supervisors, such as their age, gender, appearance, have a positive effect on the process, as well as those who think that this has no effect. The needs and suggestions of the psychological counselors regarding the process are related to the content and the duration. For the ideal supervision environment, psychological counselors think that the supportive attitudes and rapid feedback of the supervisor are important. Based on these implications, it is thought that the supervision models discussed in this study will make an important contribution to the programs for training leaders in group counseling.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hacer YILDIRIM-KURTULUŞ', 'Tuba KALAY USTA', 'Gülgün UZUN']
Yayın Yılı: 2 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: IBAD Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ibad/issue/64491/1031369
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2111000
