Makale Başlığı: Examınatıonof teacher’s opınıons on the concept of dıgıtal story ın socıal study teachıng
Özet: Information and communication technologies change and transform everything about human and human. With the changing and developing technology, the society and every institution that constitutes the society has inevitably been transformed . The reflections of information and communication technologies on the educational institution started the change in learning-teaching environments .  Education Faculties have an important role about being integrated technology into education and  being used innovative and contemporary methods and techniques in the classroom environment. Because pre-service teachers of the future are expected to have the knowledge and skills required by the age of technology, and in order to convey this information to students, they need to have knowledge about effective pedagogical models that they can apply in the classroom and suitable  methods for the technology age. For this reason, it is thought that it is important for the education faculty students to have knowledge and opinions about the concept of digital story, which has been mentioned a lot in recent years and has started to be emphasized in many studies.The aim of this study is to reveal pre-service teachers’ views on the concept of digital story. The research was carried out with twenty-six pre-service teachers studying at Nevşehir Hacı Bektaş Veli University, Faculty of Education, Department of Social Studies Education in the 2021-2022 academic year. The descriptive survey method was used in the research and the "Knowledge and Perception Form for the Concept of Digital Story", which consists of three parts, was created as a data collection tool. Content analysis method was used in the analysis of the data. According to the results related to the eight questions within  Knowledge and Perception Form for the Concept of Digital Story , It was seen that social studies pre-service teachers, in terms of digital story telling concepts and contributions to students have high awareness level, but they  have low awareness and proficiency level  in terms of digital story telling practices.
Yazar isimleri: ['Rukiyye ÖĞDÜR', 'Ali MEYDAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Sosyal Bilimler Eğitimi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/issej/issue/70437/1035452
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2127547
