Makale Başlığı: Metropol Kentte Prekarya Olgusunun Göçmen Karşıtlığına Etkisi: Fatih İlçesi Örneği/The Effect of Precariat Phenomenon on the Anti-Immigration Attitudes in Metropolitan City: The Example of Fatih District
Özet: This study, which aims to measure the effect of precarious labor in the labor market on anti-immigration attitudes and to reveal how effective it is on the attitude towards immigrants, was carried out using quantitative and qualitative methods. While designing the quantitative dimension of the research, a non-random sampling method was used and a questionnaire was administered to 154 people. The criterion determined in reaching qualitative and quantitative data in the field part of the research were as follows; The validity that the participants in the sample reside in the Fatih district and work in temporary and precarious jobs. To make a comparative analysis of quantitative data, full-time workers and individuals with work assurance were included in the sample. The purposive sampling method was used in the selection of the sample in the qualitative phase.Interviews were conducted with 9 workers and 4 employers using a semi-structured interview form. Due to the shortage of female employees and business owners, male participants constitute the majority. Before preparing the questionnaire and interview form, a literature review was conducted. The expert evaluation was conducted for the content validity of the questionnaire. Opinions were received from 5 experts for the content validity of the questionnaire and the interview form. Descriptive and regression analyzes of quantitative data were performed using the SPSS program. Qualitative data were analyzed using thematic analysis.Eventually, Syrians are cited by these not secured workers as the cause of local youth unemployment and delinquency. It is seen that the unregistered and cheaper work of Syrians in the labor market creates a disadvantage for precarious workers. Both workers and employers stated that they do not approve of the unregistered work of immigrants. Workers and employers have similar thoughts on the fact that Syrians take part in the labor of local workers. Nevertheless, unlike workers, employers think that employers in the labor market employ immigrants with the desire to make a profit and that the state is inadequate at the point of control. Both precarious workers and employers stated that informal work cannot be prevented.As a result of the research, the precarious labor had a significant effect on anti-immigrant sentiments.  However, there was no significant difference between the securely and insecurely employed people regarding the change in the Fatih district. Locals, on the other hand, think that Fatih has changed negatively with the arrival of immigrants. In addition, the fact that Syrians cause changes in the real estate market in Istanbul due to their crowded families affects the attitudes of the locals.  In Turkey, one out of every three people works informally and one out of every four young people is unemployed. Individuals continue to work informally to maintain their essential activities, hence, staying in insecurity for a longer period. In the interviews conducted with employers, no anger or hatred reaction against Syrians was experienced. Moreover, considering that one million Syrian children will start working in the next ten years, will cause the labor market employees, who are in a secure position, to lose their positions, in the future. These two groups, which are included in the precarious classification, may go beyond the rivalry and create new conflicts in the future. The discrimination, anger, hatred, and violence they see not only from the locals but also the society may lead turn refugees into a marginal group. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Tuğba KOÇAK']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Nitel Sosyal Bilimler
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/nsb/issue/71303/1124736
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2461374
