Makale Başlığı: The Visibility of Orientalism in the Concept of Europe’s Eastern Politics in the Light of the “Opposition in Exile, Hürriyet Newspaper  of Namık Kemal”
Özet: As a result of the colonization activities that accelerated from the second half of the 19th century, European states embarked on a serious colonial race in Africa, East & Asia. In this context, the vastlands of the Ottoman Empire came to the fore as important geography that was of interest to these states. In this period, the intellectuals of the Ottoman state made an important effort to improve the existing order and regain the state structure with the thoughts they expressed through the press. In this respect, Hürriyet newspaper, published by the New Ottomans, was an important source both in terms of containing information that sheds light on the current political history of the period and reflecting the details of Europe’s Eastern policy. In this study, the political approaches of the European states toward the Eastern geography were examined in the light of the articles from the book “Opposition in Exile, Hürriyet Newspaper of Namık Kemal”, which includes the transliteration of Hürriyet Newspaper into the Latin alphabet. In this context, it was tried to shed light on the elements related to the concept of orientalism in the political approach they developed for the region. In the second and third sections, general information is given about the New Ottomans, Hürriyet newspaper, and the orientalism policy that has developed over the centuries within the framework of Europe’s Eastern policy. In the fourth part, which is the main part of the study, the visibility of orientalism policy in Europe’s Eastern politics is discussed within a certain framework in the light of the data in Hürriyet newspaper. In the introduction part of the article, European civilization, the relationship between modernization and imperialism, and the modernization process in the last period of the Ottoman Empire were examined. In addition, detailed information was given about the scientific method used in the writing of this article, and the meaning of the “discourse analysis method” and how it was used in the study in question were explained. In the second part, the subjects of the New Ottomans and Hürriyet newspaper are discussed. The historical development process of the New Ottomans movement is conveyed and the importance of this intellectual group in Ottoman political history is discussed. In the second part of the chapter, the Young Turk press movement, which defines the press activities of the New Ottomans, is examined and in this context, information about the Hürriyet newspaper, which is the main source of this article, is given. In this context, the emergence process of the newspaper, its historical development, and important issues that are the subject of the newspaper are conveyed. In the third chapter, general information is given about the orientalist policy that has developed over the centuries within the framework of Eastern politics. The historical development of orientalism is explained and its relationship with the concept ofcolonialism is explained. Added to these, information was given about the “Eastern Question”, which was the most important subject of the period in the context of colonialism. In the fourth chapter, which is the main part of the study, the visibility of orientalism policy in Europe’s eastern policy envisioning in the light of the data in Hürriyet newspaper is discussed within a certain framework. The data discussed in this context were examined under the titles of the “Barbarian Eastern versus the Civilized Westerner” and the “Eastern Question”.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sacide Nur AKKAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Marmara Üniversitesi Siyasal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/marmarasbd/issue/72775/1078898
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2274331
