Makale Başlığı: Hate Speech in New Media: Investigation of Hate Speech Including Law Numbered 6222 Created by the Fans
Özet: The features of the new media, such as digitality, interactivity, hypertextuality, virtuality and user-generated content, are important factors for fans to use new media platforms. These football fans, who are the members of platforms that are open to any interactions, behave with a sense of belonging to the teams they support, at the same time they tag other fan groups as “others”. New media provides an online and free atmosphere. Therefore white supremacy, anger and hate spread uncontrollably against others. Although severe punishments were imposed on the fans who share the detection of violent and abusive content in social media with the entry into force of Law Numbered 6222 on Prevention of Violence and Irregularities in Sports Competitions, the fans use the number itself, 6222, as a code and continue to share hateful contents. Therefore, this study aims to detect hate speeches made using both the number 6222 (Law. No. 6222) as a code and specified keywords on Twitter, which is one of the new media platforms, between the period of June 2019 and December 2019 (7 months). The posts of fans were recorded according to specific keywords by using the "Advanced Search" feature of Twitter and then analyzed by following the content analysis method.  Besides, the posts that include the code 6222 enabled us to reach more hate speech content. Therefore, the snowball sampling (chain-referral sampling) technique was applied. To ensure the reliability and validity, all posts were coded in the coding scale according to the categories. As a result of this study, the identities and fan groups are targeted by hate speech, and the categories of hate speech are demonstrated in the graphics.
Yazar isimleri: ['Elzem Seren DİNÇ KIRLI', 'Güven BÜYÜKBAYKAL']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Kültürel ve Sosyal Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/intjcss/issue/70727/1083483
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2292595
