Makale Başlığı: Network Analysis on Graves' Ophthalmopathy
Özet: Introduction: Graves' ophthalmopathy (GO), sometimes known as Graves' orbitopathy, is an eye illness that can lead to vision loss. Despite significant developments in ophthalmology over the previous few decades, there is no comprehensive bibliometric description of the quality and quantity of GO research in the peer-reviewed literature. The purpose of this study was to examine the trends in GO publications.Materials-Methods: The bibliometric search was conducted using the Web of Science (WoS) Core Collection advanced search engine. Keywords related to “Graves” and “ophtalmopathy”  or “orbitopathy” were used. The time span was set from 1970 to 2021. The researchers looked at data on publishing growth, the most active countries and institutions, the most cited journals, and publishing and keyword mapping. The articles were investigated thoroughly. The maps were visualized using the VOSviewer technique.Results: The Wos database yielded 958 articles about GO. These 958 articles had an average of 29.59 citations each. These items have a H index of 81. The majority of the papers found were in the fields of endocrinology and metabolism (38.83 percent), followed by ophthalmology (25.99 percent), with the United States as the leading country. The articles garnered a total of 28348 citations, averaging 29.59 per article. Annual citation growth of GO was sluggish until the 1990s, then skyrocketed in the subsequent decade.Conclusion: The USA was the leading country but the rest of the world made a significant contribution. The quantity of citations is great, yet global collaboration is required to address this increasing and worrisome issue.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bünyamin AYDIN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Biotechnology and Strategic Health Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bshr/issue/72769/1100224
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2360868
