Makale Başlığı: BRAND EXPERIENCES IMPACT ON BRAND ADVOCACY: ADAPTATION TO TURKISH SCALE, VALIDITY AND RELIABILITY
Özet: Brand experience is all that you experience about the brand, starting before buying a brand, during and after the purchase. Brand advocacy, on the other hand, expresses your dedication to the brand, beyond using a brand faithfully, as well as persistently recommending it to your environment. The Retail Brand Experience Scale which were developed by Khan and Rahman and Brand Advocacy Scale which were developed and adapt by Wilder, at this study was to adapt the two scales into Turkish and to analyze the validity and reliability of the Turkish forms.After the scale adaptation, the effect of brand experiences on brand advocacy was examined using Structural Equation Model (SEM).The main mass of the research is university students who were born after 1980 and received education at associate, undergraduate, graduate and doctoral levels from the new generation consumer universe known as digitasl natives. According to the results of the data collected online from 930 participants, the Cronbach's alpha coefficient of the brand experience scale is 0,970 and the Cronbach's alpha coefficient of the brand advocacy scale is 0,972. Thereby, it can be saw that these scales have high reliability and validity and the Turkish versions of those are valid and reliable measurement tools. In structural model review, the effect of brand experiences on brand advocacy was found. By examining the results of the structural equation model, it has been observed that the physical shopping experiences of the brand and the experiences of brand reliability and facilitation have a positive effect on brand advocacy.The limitation of the study is that a technological product was used as a stimulus. In future research, the scales may give different results in brand sub-dimensions, with the use of different products from different sectors and samples to be formed from different consumer groups.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Beykoz Akademi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/beykozad/issue/71287/1142846
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2534562
