Makale Başlığı: An Investigation of Cognitive Gains Found in Secondary Education Religious Culture and Moral Education Curriculums According to the Revised Bloom Taxonomy
Özet: Reasons such as developments in science and technology, changing needs of people and society, and innovations in educational approaches in the world reveal the need for continuous updating of curricula. For this purpose, the Secondary Education Religious Culture and Moral Education Curriculum, which was last renewed by the Ministry of National Education in 2010, was renewed in 2018. The created program is aimed to train students who produce and use information. In addition, it is stated that this program aims to make the Religious Culture and Moral Knowledge course a simple and understandable course that takes into account individual differences and gives value and skills, rather than a course that only conveys information. The Secondary Education Religious Culture and Moral Education Curriculum, which was prepared by considering approaches such as skill-based learning, multiple intelligences, and student-centered learning, is aimed to provide environments in which students' basic skills are prioritized. Religious Culture and Moral Knowledge courses provide an important opportunity to raise generations with national, moral, humanitarian, and cultural values specified in the Basic Law of National Education. In this context, it is very important to constantly update the curricula of these courses in parallel with the developments in education and to have the equipment to meet the needs of the era in terms of gaining the desired knowledge, skills, attitudes, and skills. In this respect, the Revised Bloom's Taxonomy also has a significant impact on improving the quality of the curriculum. The research is aimed to examine the cognitive acquisitions in the Secondary Education Religious Culture and Moral Knowledge Curriculum, which was prepared and implemented by the Ministry of National Education in the 2018-2019 academic year, according to the Revised Bloom Taxonomy. For this purpose, the gains specified in the program were classified according to the learning areas, and then the cognitive gains were analyzed according to the dimensions of knowledge and cognitive process. The research sample consists of 79 acquisitions in the program belonging to the cognitive domain. In the research, the document analysis method, one of the qualitative research methods was used. In the general distribution of the cognitive gains in the program in the cognitive process dimension, the intensity in the steps of understanding and evaluation draws attention. While 39.24% of all gains are at the level of understanding, 34.17% of them are at the level of evaluation. The fact that approximately three of every four acquisitions are at these stages contradicts the necessity of a balanced distribution of the acquisitions at each stage for full learning to take place. While 8.86% of the gains are in the remembering step, 17.72% are in the decoding step. The lack of achievement in the application step and the intended creation step, in which students achieve the success of solving the problems they encounter in life based on the information they have learned, is an important deficiency of the program. It is against the goal of gaining qualifications that produce the knowledge specified in the program, use it functionally in life and thus solve problems, think critically, and contribute to society and culture. In this study, the document analysis method, one of the qualitative research methods was used. This method is aimed to examine the written sources of information about the subject to be researched. This process, accessing the data, checking the originality of the data, understanding, analyzing, and evaluating following the purpose of the research are carried out in five stages. In this direction, books, theses, scientific articles, and symposium papers within the scope of the subject were scanned and analyzed per the purpose. The data obtained form the basis for the evaluation of the gains in the Religious Culture and Moral Knowledge Curriculum, which has been implemented since the 2018-2019 academic year, according to the Revised Bloom Taxonomy.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hüseyin Kasım KOCA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Marife Dini Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://marife.org/tr/pub/issue/71001/1073909
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2254902
