Makale Başlığı: The Theory Of Intersubjectıvıty In Psychotherapy And The Evaluatıon Of Carl Gustav Jung’s “Synchronıcıty” Phenomenon At The Poınt Where Quantum Mechanıcs Is Today
Özet: Throughout history, human beings have tried to explain the phenomena that contain uncertainties for themselves by applying different paradigms. Human being’s need to clarify events and phenomena and his attempts on this subject have inevitably changed his way of perceiving the World and this caused him to make some changes or arrangements in his behaviour. This change and transformation in human beings has led to the cange in the models an methods he uses to make a sense of life and to become more complex. This situation has led to a similar process in terms of psychology theories trying to understand the individual and different psychotherapy approaches have emerged. In this regard, one of the important points reached in terms of psychotherapy theories has been the theory of intersub-jectivity, which claims that every therapeutic interaction has very deep dynamics in its content and that each one should be handled within itself. This theoretical plane drew attention to the fact that trying to understand man and his interaction within certain theoretical definitions and frameworks can be limiting and sometimes misleading. For this reason, from an intersubjective point of view, it was emphasized that every relationship and interaction that the therapist establishes with the client in psychotherapy sessions should be considered contextualy, and it was realized that each established relationship has deep dynamics waiting to be resolved in itself. At this point, therapeutic inter- ventions in which intuitions are included in the process as well as an effective empathy synchronized with the client; it was concluded that these are the most effective methods that can be applied during the psychotherapy sessions by the therapists.In light of this information, the subject of this study will be the final point reached by science today and the inter- subjectivity in psychotherapy in terms of this point and Carl Gustav Jung’s views in this regard. In accordance with the purpose of the study, a literatüre review was conducted with a qualitative approach.In this context, it will start by brieflygiving a place to the models that human beings resort to in their adventure of making sense of unknown. After creating this infrastructure, the basic principles of quantum mechanics and Jung’s Analytical Psychology Theory, which dates back about a century, will be examined comparatively. In the last part, intersubjective theory and the key role of Jung’s theory at this point will be interpreted from the perspective of quantum mechanics.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ümit AKÇAKAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye Bütüncül Psikoterapi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bpd/issue/69431/1060304
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2201881
