Makale Başlığı: Aesthetic Listening: A Study on It's Theoretical and Conceptual Basis and Educational Case Sample of It
Özet: Listening skill, which is the most frequently used language skill of the individual in daily life, is not included in academic studies as much as it is used. While eliminating this deficiency in the literature, it has been determined that aesthetic listening among the listening types is not considered an independent genre in some studies and there is no consensus on its definition. This study aims to determine the theoretical bases of aesthetic listening and to present an example of educational status within the scope of Turkish lessons. The theoretical basis in question is based on the relations between aesthetics and Turkish education, aesthetic listening, and listening education. In this context, the meta-synthesis method was used in the study. An educational situation for aesthetic listening was designed; thus, the application processes of aesthetic listening education have been clarified concretely. In the educational situation, which was prepared to develop students' aesthetic listening skills, more than one type of text was used to create awareness of aesthetic sensitivity in the recipients. At this point, it has been considered essential to use poems with aesthetic value as main and mirror texts. In the case of a structured education situation, examples of experiences where students can acquire strategies and techniques in the context of aesthetic listening, deepen their knowledge and experience ranges and increase their interpretive knowledge are included. It is foreseen that the study will fill the gap in the literature regarding aesthetic listening and will lay the academic ground for scientific studies.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zehra Nur BAYINDIR', 'Muhammed Eren UYGUR', 'Duygu ÇAPTUĞ']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Filoloji Bengü
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ufb/issue/73481/1162030
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2596387
