Makale Başlığı: Perception of self-efficacy in chronic diseases: A review of studies carried out in Turkey
Özet: Self-efficacy, which is an individual variable in the initiation and maintenance of health behaviors, is an important motivational resource in the management of chronic diseases with a highprevalence and among the leading causes of death. For this reason, in this review, it is aimed to examine the relationship between chronic diseases and self-efficacy studies conducted in Turkey.In this context, which variables affect self-efficacy in chronic diseases, how these changes cause effects, and the effects of interventions on self-efficacy are examined. In the review, articles published in the last 20 years from various databases (such as EbscoHost, Science Direct, Taylor & Francis Online, Ulakbim, and Google Scholar) were searched. Twenty-five research articles carried out in Turkey were included. While making the searches, the keywords of self-efficacy, self-efficacy, chronic disease, “self efficacy and Turkey” were written on the search buttons. In this review, which examines the relationship between self-efficacy and chronic diseases in Turkey, eight studies on diabetes, five on chronic kidney failure and hemodialysis, COPD, two on rheumatoid arthritis and cancer, and one each on hemophilia, hypertension, and two on general chronic diseases are included. In general, it has been seen that the self-efficacy level of those with chronic diseases is low or moderate, those with higher education and income levels and those who have received training on the disease have higher self-efficacy. In addition, it can be said that family support and social support have a positive relationship with self-efficacy; with the increase in self-efficacy, self-care, self-management behaviors, adherence to treatment, and quality of life increase. It has been determined that educational interventions about the disease increase self-efficacy and increasing self-efficacy has a positive effect on self-management behaviors.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Oltu Beşeri ve Sosyal Bilimler Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/oltu/issue/73230/1195869
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2736178
