Makale Başlığı: Perceptions of Medicine and Nursing Interns towards Physician-Nurse Conflict Causes and Nursing Image
Özet: Background: Conflict is a factor that hinders the continuation of healthy communication. Effective communication between physicians and nurses is a basic factor that can prevent conflict by maintaining team cooperation. Although not included in the literature, it is thought that the perceptions of physicians and nurses towards the image of nursing may also lead to conflict. Accordingly, it is important to determine the causes of conflict of the two professional groups and their perceptions towards the image of nursing. Objectives: The aim of this study is to compare and evaluate the perceptions of intern students of medical faculty and nursing department towards the causes of physician-nurse conflict and the image of nursing. Methods: The population of this descriptive and cross-sectional research was total of 382 intern students were studying in a public university of Faculty of Medicine (n = 200) and Nursing (n = 182) Departments between March and May 2019. The sample consisted of a total of 158 students who were interns in the medical faculty and nursing department of a public university and met the inclusion criteria. Data were collected with introductory features form, Scale of Doctor-Nurse Conflict Causes and Scale for Image of Nursing Profession. Results: %71.5 (n = 113) of the sample consisted of nursing, and %28.5 (n = 45) of medical intern students. While the mean Scale for Image of Nursing Profession score of medical interns was 106.55 ± 1.50, it was 105.42 ± 1.10 for nursing interns. It was determined that the image of the nursing profession was weak for both nursing and medical intern students. There was a significant difference between medical and nursing students in terms of professional perception (p = .000) and communication (p = .000) sub-dimension scores of Scale of Doctor-Nurse Conflict Causes and in terms of Scale for İmage of Nursing Profession (p = .000), professional quality (p = .000), working conditions (p = .000), gender (p = .000), education (p = .000) and appearance (p = .000) mean scores. While nursing students showed the doctor's characteristics like professional perception and communication as a reason for more conflict; medical students have shown that unbalanced seizure distribution, intense working hours and the imbalance of authority. Conclusion: In the light of the findings, the image perception towards the nursing profession is weak in terms of nursing and medical intern students. While medical interns mostly focus on working conditions as the cause of conflict, it has been determined that nursing interns see the problems arising from the perception of profession and communication between the physician and nurse as the cause of conflict.
Yazar isimleri: ['Cansu KOŞAR', 'Sezgi ÇINAR PAKYÜZ', 'Ozden DEDELİ CAYDAM', 'Bilgesu YURDAKUL', 'Enes Furkan ÇALI']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Hemşirelik Fakültesi Elektronik Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/deuhfed/issue/71208/865607
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1523764
