Makale Başlığı: Comparison of Mashariqa and Magariba it Tajweed Through Abdulvahhab al-Qurtubî and Ahmad b. Ebû Omar al-Enderâbî’s Approach to the Lahn Phenomenon
Özet: This study aimed to investigate what similarities and differences existed between Maghrib and Mashriq, and has emerged in the approach to the basic issues of tajweed Tajwīd through the evaluations of two recitation and Tajwīd scholars, one of whom lived in the Mashriq and the other in Maghrib, i.e. Andalusia, in the Hijri fifth century hijri, who did not even exist for ten years between the dates of their death, worked on the phenomenon of laḥn (solecism), which played an important role in the emergence of the science of Tajwīd. Indeed, the Maghrebi Abd al-Vehhāb al-Kurtubī (d. 462/1069) carried out in-depth analysis of almost all the subjects related to Tajwīd at the level of letters and compositions in his work called al-Mudıh fî at-Tajwīd. Ahmad b. Ebī Omar al-Enderābī (d. 470/1077), on the other hand, included many recitations, narration and tariqs in his work called al-Īdāh fī al-Qırâ’ât which was left outside of the seventh and tenth system, and furthermore examined some issues related to Tajwīd at the level of letters and composition. The fact that studies of Tajwīd scholars before Enderâbî have not reached the present day for one reason or another, or that they have not been discovered yet, makes this particular study of Enderābī a work that reflects the Eastern Tajwīd collection, making it furthermore valuable. Before conveying the explanations and of the two scholars mentioned in the article on the subject of “laḥn”, we will mention some issues that are the subject of approach differences between Maghrib and Mashriq in the tradition of Islamic sciences. Our aim in doing this will be to reveal that the difference in approach between Mashāriqah and Maghāribah in the tradition of Islamic thought is not unique to the field of Tajwīd.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mücella HACIMISIROĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Tefsir Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tader/issue/73215/1167091
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2616427
