Makale Başlığı: The Importance of Rural Tourism in the Context of Sustainable Urban Development and Its Impact on Rural Development: The Case of Foça Kozbeyli
Özet: The strain and destruction of touristic activities on the city’s inherent values is quite strong in historical city centers. Alternative tourism types that focus on rural areas are important in terms of sectoral development in this context. Cooperation between agriculture and tourism contributes to the reduction of development gaps between rural and urban areas, the preservation and development of existing environmental assets and natural resources in rural areas, and long-term urban development. The aim of this study is to examine the tourism potential of the city of Foça and to reveal the importance and necessity of rural tourism in the context of the sectoral development of tourism. Kozbeyli village was chosen as a sample area. This study, in which rural tourism is discussed in the context of sustainable urban development and its impact on rural development, includes a study on spatial fiction as well as carrying out a planning study on tourism activities. In the study method, qualitative and quantitative research techniques are used together. Direct observation and spatial investigations constitute the qualitative part of the study method, while the evaluations made using the Likert scale technique constitute the quantitative part. The “Farm and Tourism Facility Design with Rural Tourism Concept” student project work progress in Kozbeyli village was discussed. The reflections of tourism on architecture and its effects on the city were evaluated. This research can also be viewed as a preliminary investigation on the architectural quality of small and medium-sized rural facilities.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hayriye Oya SAF']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kent Akademisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kent/issue/70491/1006379
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2016153
