Makale Başlığı: ADDRESSING TERMS IN TURKISH: A CLASSIFICATION BASED ON THEIR PART OF SPEECH AND PRAGMATIC PROPERTIES
Özet: It is a well-known fact that collectivist cultures like Turkish tend to distinguish the members of the society from each other on the basis of their unique characteristics (Hofstede, 1994). As a linguistic consequence of this cultural tendency, Turkish has an extensive addressing system. In addition to their abundance in number in Turkish, their frequency of usage in daily interaction (Gao, 2014, p. 2615; Clayman, 2010, p. 162) make the explanation of the system a motivating area of study. The study is a corpus-based one conducted to detect the linguistic devices and their variations in the addressing system in Turkish and an attempt to classify the detected terms. The data collected from TNCv.3.0.  extended with the terms collected from multimodal sources in order to create a comprehensive database.  Braun’s (1988) and Dunkling’s (1990) classification were adapted to understand the system. As cited in literature, Turkish addressing terms can be classified as the pronominal ones (sen, siz) and nominal ones based on their parts of speech. Current research subdivides the nominal ones into seven sub-classes as the kinship terms, fictive kinship terms, familiarizers, endearment terms, mockeries, titles, and honorifics. All the discursive features of sub-classes are depicted by the help of the analyzed examples. The study aims overall to describe Turkish addressing system comprehensively and it is supposed that the study can also contribute to the applications in education, translation, natural language processing and lexiocography as well as nonlinguistic areas of study.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nuriye ÖZER', 'Pınar İBE AKCAN']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Çukurova Üniversitesi Türkoloji Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cutad/issue/70298/1000242
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1992589
