Makale Başlığı: The im/possibility of machine translation in literary and specialized texts: Rethinking translators’ changing job descriptions
Özet: In this study, a practical framework will be drawn on differences/similarities between different text samples translated by machine translation programs and human translators in French-Turkish and Turkish-French language pairs. In addition, competencies of machine translation in tasks performed in these language pairs will be observed, while the definition, scope, framework and dynamics of the Post-Editing process, which can be defined as one of the new tasks of the human translator today, will be discussed based on the resulting translations. In the first part of the study, machine translation will be defined, and the types of machine translation and the most frequently used machine translation programs, Google Translate and Yandex Translate, which also contain Turkish language combinations, will be briefly introduced. With the widespread use of machine translation and the fact that neural machine translation has started to produce translations very close to human translation, a new research area called Post-Editing has emerged. According to the most common definition in the literature, post-editing is the whole process that includes the stages of reviewing, rearranging, correcting, and reproducing translations obtained from machine translation programs by the human translator. This new job definition for the translator refers to a paradigm shift from a translational point of view. In the second part, the processes of post-editing and the definition and scope of this new task will be discussed. In the last part, differences between the texts in literature and various fields of specialization translated by machine translation programs and human translators will be discussed. One aim is to observe how machine translation programs give results in different text types and the types of errors that occur in these translations. Another aim is to determine what level of post-editing process the raw translations of different text types may need, and what processes the translator should perform to reach the final product.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1188804
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2707282
