Makale Başlığı: DISTRICT OF VARNA UNDER OTTOMAN DOMINATION: SOME INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SETTLEMENT, DEMOGRAPHICS AND ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE (16TH-18TH CENTURIES)
Özet: Varna is located on a coastal plain situated on a bay having the same name in the Northeastern part of Bulgaria. Founded as a Greek colony in the 6th century BC, Varna was incorporated into the Danubian Bulgarian State (First Bulgarian State) in the late 8th century and converted to Christianity during the second half of the 9th century. Varna fell under Byzantine rule in 971 and this lasted for a long time. As from 13th century, Turkic people migrating to Anatolia were settled in Varna located within the borders of the Bulgarian State. Some of them returned to Anatolia and some others stayed in Dobruja and adopted Christianity. The descendants of these Christian Turks, called the Gagauz, founded an independent beylik in Dobruja. The capital city of this beylik was Kaliakra (Keligra) and was later moved to Varna.  Varna and its surrounding region fell under Ottoman rule during the reign of Sultan Murad I. The Crusade of Varna 1444 between the Ottoman Empire and the Crusaders took place around the vicinity of Varna. After 1444, the Yoruk groups were settled in the villages destroyed by their abandoned populations. Administratively, Varna was subjected to the sanjak of Silistra from the 16th century. The data in the cadastral record books (tahrir defteri) indicate that the population of Varna increased throughout the 16th century. Under Ottoman rule, Varna was one of the commercially important centers on the route leading to Istanbul from the North of the Black Sea. Offering chances in terms of economic and commercial activities, Varna attracted both Muslims and non-Muslims. Varna was raided many times by the Prince of Wallachia Michael in the late 16th century, and by the Cossacks in the 17th century. The archive records show that the population of the district of Varna was reconstructed following these raids. New districts (Hacıoğlu Pazardzhik and Balchik) were founded around Varna in the second half of the 16th century. In the 17th century, the number of the villages and the population of Varna decreased due to not only the Cossack attacks but also these newly founded districts. This paper provides information regarding Varna coming under the Ottoman domination, its administrative organization, its settlement, and demographics. This information will contribute to the history of the district Varna’s administration, socio-economics, settlement, and demographics.
Yazar isimleri: ['İbrahim Etem ÇAKIR']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Balkan Araştırma Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/baed/issue/71177/1134136
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2500524
