Makale Başlığı: Investigation of Suggestions for Parents in Online Resources to Support the Development of 0-36 Months Old Children
Özet: One of the factors affecting the development of children in the first three years of life is the environment. Parents in the child's closest environment spend much time with the children. In this process, parents benefit from online resources by using today's technologies because they are easily accessible in learning the developmental characteristics of their children and supporting them in this regard. Online parenting resources contain important and useful child development information for parents of young children. The aim of this study is to examine the online resources related to suggestions for supporting the development of children aged 0-36 months. The research was designed as a qualitative case study, additionally online information gathering method was used. 66 web pages, which were determined by criterion sampling method, formed the study material. The data obtained were analyzed using the descriptive analysis technique according to the categories and codes created from the development areas and indicators included in the MEB Education Program for 0-36 Months Children. As a result of the research, suggestions for the "Social - Emotional Development" category are the most in online parenting resources, and then respectively the suggestions for the "Language Development", "Cognitive Development", "Fine Motor Development" and at least "Gross Motor Development" categories were given in online parenting resources. The development indicator of “accompanying the person playing with him / participating in the game” and the “listening to the stories with his attention” have been the most frequently cited developmental indicators.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşe Belgin AKSOY', 'Merve AKSOY']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Cumhuriyet Uluslararası Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://cije.cumhuriyet.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/72802/925337
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1725993
