Makale Başlığı: ELECTRONIC GENERAL ASSEMBLY IN INCORPORATED COMPANIES
Özet: Every aspect of our life has undergone significant differences due to the innovations and technological advancements brought about by the information age. These differentiations have been experienced in the field of law as well as in our daily lives and continue to be experienced. Corporate law, in general, and Incorporated Companies law, in particular, have had their share of these differentiations and have benefited from the information age. As a matter of fact, one of the most important innovations of the Turkish Commercial Code No. 6102 is the electronic board meetings and participation in the board meetings in the electronic environment. Based on the importance of the general assembly meetings, the legislator tried to find a solution to the problem of the power gap, which is frequently encountered, as stated in the justification of Article 1527 of the Turkish Commercial Code, by introducing the opportunity to participate in the general assemblies of incorporated companies in the electronic environment. With the introduction of the electronic general assembly into our legislation, it has been observed that participation in the general assembly meetings in incorporated companies has increased. It is stated that the electronic general assembly, introduced for purposes such as preventing power gaps, making general assembly meetings more effective, etc., has benefits and drawbacks. In addition, there are currently deficiencies in the electronic general assembly system and points that need to be corrected. In this study, basic information about the general assembly of the incorporated companies will be given. After the general information about the general assembly of joint stock companies is given, the electronic general assembly will be examined in detail. The process will be detailed before the electronic general assembly, holding the electronic general assembly and after the electronic general assembly. In addition to the information, suggestions and opinions will also be expressed from time to time
Yazar isimleri: ['Salih KARADENİZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İstanbul Medeniyet Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/imhfd/issue/72794/1182054
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2679313
