Makale Başlığı: Examination of Secondary Students' Opinions on Mathematics in Distance Education in Terms of Demographic Variables
Özet: This research aimed to explore the secondary school students' opinions towards distance education for the mathematics lesson. This study has two basic purposes. The first is to develop a scale enabling to examine the secondary school students' opinions towards mathematics courses in distance education. The second is to determine the opinions of the secondary school students towards mathematics in distance education in terms of various variables. This study was carried out with the relational screening method. The sample during the scale development process consisted of 375 students from secondary schools. In the second application, held seven months later, 419 students were reached and the data analyses were performed with the students who participated in the second application. The data was analyzed by using the LISREL and SPSS package program. As a result of the analyses, it was determined that the opinion scale towards mathematics in distance education was a valid and reliable measuring tool. According to the findings obtained, there was no significant difference in the scores of the secondary school students related to mathematics in distance education in terms of gender. It was found that the eighth-class students demonstrated more negative opinions towards mathematics lessons in distance education compared with the students in the lower classes. The student's participation in the lesson with their parents affected their scores towards mathematics in distance education. A significant difference occurred in the mathematics study hours in terms of the scores of the secondary school students related to mathematics in distance education. It is thought that the reached results will shed light on the future applications relevant to distance education.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zeynep ÇAKMAK GÜREL', 'Meryem ÖZTURAN SAĞIRLI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Ondokuz Mayıs Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/omuefd/issue/70809/1005588
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2013060
