Makale Başlığı: THE PROBLEM OF A DUALIST STRUCTURE IN THE PROVISION OF SECURITY SERVICES: JUDICIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE LAW
Özet: The need for security is one of the basic needs of individuals and societies. Individuals feel the need to protect themselves from nature, people and other living things on earth. This need has been one of the main factors in the emergence of state legal personality. When the human race left the nomadic life and moved to a settled life, the problem of ensuring security in the collective living areas arose. This problem has led to the emergence of law enforcement agencies.Law enforcement personnel work not only in the fight against crime and criminals, but also in order to ensure justice in every aspect of community life. In Turkey, judicial and administrative law enforcement services are carried out by the same unit and personnel. The unification of the duties carried out in different ways under different administrative authorities in the person of the same law enforcement personnel, based on different legal regulations, is considered contrary to both the principle of separation of powers and the understanding of providing effective service.In this study, the problem of dual structure, which is accepted to exist in the provision of judicial and administrative law enforcement services in Turkey, will be handled through the general law enforcement agencies in general and the General Directorate of Security in particular. The study will consist of three parts, in the first part, law enforcement services will be discussed in the conceptual framework, the relationship between the state and law enforcement will be examined and the concept of public order will be explained. In the second part of the study, law enforcement structures in the context of comparative law and law enforcement structure in Turkey will be discussed. In the third part of the study, various effects that are considered to be caused by the execution of judicial and administrative law enforcement services by the same units and personnel in Turkey will be discussed and solution proposals will be tried to be presented.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nizamettin AYDIN', 'Tahir DEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Dumlupınar Üniversitesi İİBF Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dpuiibf/issue/70376/1125313
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2463652
