Makale Başlığı: Determination of responses to salt stress of some fescue (Festuca spp.) species at germination and seedling stages
Özet: Aims: This study was carried out to determine the performances of some grass species (Festuca arundinaceae L. (tall fescue), Festuca rubra L. subsp. rubra (red fescue with rhizome), and Festuca. rubra L. subsp. commutata (red fescue without rhizome)) under different salt doses (control/0, 50 mM, 100 mM, 150 mM, and 200 mM).Methods and Results: NaCl2 was used to create different salt doses in the study. Solutions prepared according to salt doses were added to the germination medium of Festuca species as 8 mL and the species were left for germination and seedling development in the climate cabinet for 10 days. At the end of this period, germination rate, germination index, mean germination time, shoot and root length, and seedling fresh weight characteristics were examined. The germination rate, germination index, and average germination time of Festuca species were not affected by salt doses, while the shoot and root length and seedling fresh weight properties were affected.Conclusions: According to the results, it was concluded that the seedling growth characteristics of the fescue species differ under different salt doses. Festuca rubra L. subsp. rubra (red fescue with rhizome) species used in the study was determined to be more tolerant to salt stress compared to other species.Significance and Impact of the Study: It was aimed to examine the fescue species belonging to the genus Festuca under salt stress and to be a guide for the studies carried out to establish green areas, especially for regions with salinity problems. In addition, this study has the quality of being a reference for scientific studies to be carried out.
Yazar isimleri: ['İbrahim ERTEKİN', 'Şaban YILMAZ', 'Ersin CAN']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Mustafa Kemal Üniversitesi Tarım Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mkutbd/issue/71394/1087363
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2307812
