Makale Başlığı: Social Security Institution as a Data Controller Under the Law on the Protection of Personal Data
Özet: The Law on Protection of Personal Data numbered 6698, enacted by the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 24.03.2016 and published in the Official Gazette dated 07.04.2016 and numbered 29677, aims to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, especially the privacy of private life, and to regulate the obligations of natural and legal persons processing data and the procedures and principles to be followed. The provisions of the Law No. 6698 are applied to natural persons whose personal data are processed, natural and legal persons who process this data fully or partially automatically or, provided that they are part of any data recording system, nonautomatically, and data controllers. As defined in the Law No. 6698, the data controller is the natural or legal person who determines the purposes and means of processing personal data and is responsible for the establishment and management of the data recording system. The Social Security Institution, established with the Law No. 5502 which was published in the Official Gazette dated 20.05.2006 and numbered 26173, and entered into force is also within the scope of Law No. 6698, as a public legal entity responsible for the establishment and management of the data recording system, which determines the purposes and means of processing large and various types of personal data obtained in relation to almost the enti-re society for the planning and management of social insurance and universal health insurance financing. The study will firstly discuss the data processing activity of the Social Security Institution within framework of full and partial exceptions and the scope of the Personal Data Protection Law No. 6698 in terms of person and subject. Afterwards, the scope of the Law No. 6698 in terms of place and time and the types of data processed by the Social Security Institution will be explained and exemplified. In this study, which will focus on the conditions of personal data processing and the principles that the Social Security Institution should consider, the concept of data pro-cessor will also be evaluated and the responsibility of the Social Secu-rity Institution arising from the obligation to protect personal data will be explained within the framework of Law No. 6698 and social security legislation.
Yazar isimleri: ['Olcay IŞIK']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Erciyes Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/eruhfd/issue/73314/1195339
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2734115
