Makale Başlığı: The Faience Artifacts from The Assyiıan Trade Colonies Period in Karahöyük, Konya
Özet: It has been acknowledged that Konya-Karahöyük was an important station in the trading network established between Assyria and Anatolia in the first quarter of the 2nd millennium BC. Archaeological excavations show that the layers I-IV of the mound, which began being populated in the Early Bronze Age, are dated to the first quarter of the 2nd millennium BC. A good number of qualitative finds were discovered on the strata dated to the aforementioned period. These finds include, amongst others, the faience artifacts that comprise the subject matter of this article. Considering the fact that the moulds belonging to the faience objects unearthed in the settlements of the Assyrian Trade Colonies Period in Central Anatolia have not been found yet, that their dispersion range is extensive it was suggested that they might have been produced in more than one centre. Comprising the subject matter of this article, all of the faience works composed of beads, containers in the form of handleless cups, naked goddess figurines, rabbit figurines, and stamp seals with Omega (Ω) impressed surfaces were unearthed in the layer I of Karahöyük, dated around the end of the Late Colony Period and the beginning of the Old Hittite Period. Artifacts similar to the naked goddess and rabbit figurines of Karahöyük were also found in Central Anatolian centres. As for the stamp seals with Omega (Ω) impressed surfaces found in Karahöyük, they were widely seen in not only Inner Western Anatolian and Central Anatolian Centres, but also a large territory in Mesopotamia. While these artifacts display a typological standard, the faience cups of Karahöyük appear to be unique finds.adornment, amulets or accessories for garments. Based on comparative analysis, the 47 jewellery items in Diyarbakır Museum examined here are dated to the Early and Middle Iron Age.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sevgi GÜRDAL', 'Ali OZAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Arkeoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/egearkeoloji/issue/73269/1127623
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2473377
