Makale Başlığı: The Relationship Between Multi-Annual Budgeting and Fiscal Discipline: An Evaluation for Turkey
Özet: With the increasing globalization phenomenon in the world, communication channels have been opened and as a result, countries have begun to be affected by each other in every field. These developments eventually emerged as reform movements in every field. Reform movements that emerged in the public sphere also came to the fore within the framework of needs and most of them were put into practice. Among the reforms realized in the public sphere, state budgets have taken their place at the top of the agenda in terms of creating benefits that will help countries' economic development and growth economically and economically. In this context, we have been faced with a series of changes in the fields of public administration, public finance, and public budget, which have changed in the new world order established with globalization. When this situation is evaluated in terms of our country, the public financial management approach emerged as a reformist structure and started to be implemented in the Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018.Bringing a multi-year perspective to our budget system has been one of the most important innovations that the Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018 has brought to our country's budget management. The central government budgets, which have been prepared and implemented in our country since 2006 with a multi-year perspective, have been determined as the scope of our study, and revealing the relationship between the implementation results of the budgets and the fiscal discipline over the years reveals the purpose of this study. In our study, as a method, the state of the relationship was tried to be revealed by comparing multi-year budgeting practices and public budget performances over macroeconomic data. If it is within the scope of the relationship reached, the suggestions are also included in the conclusion part of the study.
Yazar isimleri: ['Güray AKBAL']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Public Finance
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijpf/issue/70677/970957
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1878957
