Makale Başlığı: FROM THE PROJECT TO THE SCREEN THE ADVENTURE OF  THE “YALNIZ EFE” (1987) TV SERIES
Özet: The purpose of the current study is that producer Ezel Erverdi and Lütfi Ö. Akad, who is one of the most famous directors of Turkish cinema is to deal with the events that took place before, during, and after shooting the TV series with Metin Erksan and Halit Refiğ.In addition to being able to see the human side of the aforementioned directors and understand their thoughts about each other, the events that took place during the period from the beginning of a TV series projects to the broadcasting on television (TRT) in the shadow of archive documents are presented to researchers.As of 1974, interviews were held with well-known directors of Turkey for the television series planned to be produced as internal productions in TRT, and as a result of these negotiations, some productions were signed, and most of the productions did not come to life. Significant steps were taken in that period for TV series productions, which the institution opened to foreign productions in the mid-1980s and was discussed extensively in the broadcast program, and many foreign productions took place on the screen on TRT.In 1986, “Yalnız Efe” project, which received production approval to be realized under the direction of Lütfi Ö. Akad, was planned to be shown on the channel in 1987, significant administrative problems were experienced by the producer due to the withdrawal of Akad from the project. The TV series project also experienced difficulties by TRT, which serves in the general directorate of Tunca Toskay. The process of finalizing the project and broadcasting it on the channel, despite many problems, is presented to the interested researchers, with the books written about Metin Erksan and Halit Refig, and the archive documents, as well as what the producer Ezel Erverdi conveyed.This research has concluded as a study in which detailed information about important personalities who have witnessed history is conveyed. In addition to the cultural heritage of the TV series, Yalnız Efe, which remains a memento today, the work was supported by the writings and archival documents handled by the producer Ezel Erverdi about the project and were finalized for the first time within the framework of a research project.
Yazar isimleri: ['M. Sami OKUMUŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 7 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Online Journal of Design Art and Communication
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tojdac/issue/72513/1141214
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2528112
