Makale Başlığı: INTERMEDIATION ROLE OF BRAND IMAGE IN THE EFFECT OF COUNTRY OF ORIGIN AND SELF-RESPECT ON BRAND LOYALTY IN THE SMART PHONE INDUSTRY
Özet: Objective: The purpose of this study is to determine whether brand image plays a mediating role in the effect of country of origin and self-esteem on brand loyalty in the smartphone industry. In addition, the effects of country of origin on brand image and brand loyalty and self-esteem on brand image and brand loyalty were investigated. Materials and Methods: The research data were obtained by using the survey technique. Data were collected from 431 participants in total. The SPSS 21 softwere and the Hayes PROCESS v2.16.3 plugin were used to analyze the data. Findings: In the survey, primarily the dimensions of the scales of country of origin, self-esteem, brand image and brand loyalty were mainly determined. As a result of factor analysis, the factors of country of origin, brand image, and brand loyalty were named in one dimension, while the factor of self-esteem was named in two dimensions as positive self-esteem and negative self-esteem. The regression analysis showed that the country of origin factor had no effect on brand loyalty, the self-esteem factor had an effect on brand image and brand loyalty, and the brand image factor had an effect on brand loyalty. Brand image was found to play a mediating role in the effect of the positive self-esteem factor on brand loyalty. Results: In general, it can be said that in academics and students, country of origin does not have an effect on brand loyalty, but self-esteem affects brand image and brand loyalty. The fact that the country of origin does not affect brand loyalty and brand image can be explained as the decrease in the dependence of individuals on certain country products as globalization spreads technology and science all over the world. The mediating role of brand image in the effect of positive self-esteem factor on brand loyalty; The effect of self-esteem on brand loyalty occurs with the effect of brand image perception. Because people with high positive self-esteem use products with high brand image. Therefore, it can be said that they show loyalty to brands because of their brand image perceptions rather than their self-esteem.
Yazar isimleri: ['Meliha Elif GÜVEN', 'Kahraman ÇATI', 'Ebru OSKALOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Güncel Pazarlama Yaklaşımları ve Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gupayad/issue/68959/1115479
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2423056
