Makale Başlığı: DEVELOPMENT OF ORGANIZATIONAL ASSIMILATION SCALE: VALIDATION AND RELIABILITY STUDY
Özet: The aim of this study is to provide conceptual knowledge by examining the literature about organizational assimilation and to develop a valid and reliable scale to be used in future studies in this field. Organizational assimilation is an ongoing and dynamic relationship between the organization and the individual member, in which employees learn the norms of the organization and feel that they can try to make a change for the organization. When every employee starts to work in a new organization, he or she carries in his mind his old habits, the culture of the previous organization worked and his relations with his former colleagues. This situation affects the process of getting used to the new job place of the individual. Organizational assimilation enables the individual to integrate into the culture of the new institution. The importance of organizational assimilation increases even more when it is considered that teachers change their places both for compulsory reasons and voluntarily. Data collected from 214 educators via online form; It was subjected to validity and reliability analysis through SPSS 26.00 and AMOS 26 programs. It was concluded that the Organizational Assimilation Scale (OAS) items were suitable for Exploratory Factor Analysis (EFA) and Confirmatory Factor Analysis (CFA); The KMO value was found to be .849 and significant (χ²=2979.178, df = 435 p < .01) as a result of the Barlett Test of Sphericity. EFA previously was performed and as a result of the analysis, it was seen that 30 items were gathered under seven factors. These factors were labeled as “acceptance”, “organizational harmony”, “socialization”, “specialization”, “volunteering”, “leading change” and “internalization” respectively. While the composite scale explained 62.32% of the total variance, the Cronbach Alpha reliability coefficient was found as α = .89. As a result of the first and second order CFA, it was determined that the model was fit and the correlation between factors and items was at a acceptable level (χ2 =848.460; df=387; p
Yazar isimleri: ['Ümit ÇAĞATAY', 'Abdurrahman İLĞAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Siirt Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/susbid/issue/70419/1024684
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2085497
