Makale Başlığı: Burnout and Intention to Leave A Meta-Analysis of the Relationship Between in Turkey
Özet: Aim: The aim of the study is to determine whether there is a relationship between the studies conducted in Turkey on burnout and the intention to leave work. The results of this study are important because it is seen as a deficiency in the field.   Method: 28 studies were found that examined the relationship between burnout and intention to leave work, and their analysis was conducted using the meta-analysis program Comprehensive Meta-Analysis v3. An in-depth literature review was conducted before the analysis was carried out, and studies that meet the established criteria were included in the analysis. The heterogeneity of the studies, statistical significance, impact size analyses and publication biases were examined during the analyses. In addition, subgroup analyses were performed to measure the difference between sectors.Results: First, the significance of the studies taken into the analysis was looked at and found to be statistically significant. Looking at their heterogeneity, the studies were determined to be heterogeneous, and the effect size was evaluated according to the random effects model. According to the results of the effect size analysis, a statistically significant and strong association was found between burnout and intention to leave work (E.S.= 0.610).  It has been found that there is no publication bias in the study. Finally, no significant differences were found according to the difference analysis conducted according to the sectors in which the data sample was taken. But the bank sector (E.S.=0.671) had the highest impact, while the health sector (E.S.=0.567) had the lowest impact. Considering all the results, it was found that there is a strong effect between burnout and intention to leave work, that is, as burnout increases, the intention to leave work also increases.Conclusions: Considering the aims of the study, it was revealed that burnout and quitting each other affect each other. However, it was determined that the individual studies included in the study did not have publication bias. Finally, no significant difference was found in the analysis of differences between sectors. This reveals that there is no special situation according to the sectors.
Yazar isimleri: ['Okan Anıl AYDIN']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ocak 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Health Administration and Education Congress (Sanitas Magisterium)
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijhadec/issue/65894/1027877
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2097608
