Makale Başlığı: Examination of the Relationship between Conscious Awareness (Mindfulness) and Religious Consciousness through the Muslim-Turkish Sample
Özet: Conscious awareness, translated as mindfulness, originated in the Far East but integrated into therapeutic approaches in the West is a very popular approach in recent years and expresses the state of complete consciousness. Religious consciousness, on the other hand, is a high-level state of consciousness related to religious knowledge, behavior, and values. Some concepts used in Islamic Sufism, such as “ibnu’l-vakt”, “muraqaba”, and “khushû”, are practices that increase the level of consciousness by increasing insight and develop religious consciousness. At this point, it can be mentioned that there is a correlation between the ancient wisdom of the religious tradition and conscious awareness. Examining the relationship between these two parameters through the Muslim-Turkish sample is a subject worth investigating. Sufism was developed along the lines of Islam among Turks. This study examines the relationship between conscious awareness and religious consciousness. Ethical approval of this study was obtained from Atatürk University Social and Human Sciences Ethics Committee (dated 31.05.2021 and numbered 88656144-000.E.2100139364). Results obtained have shown that there are significant differences in mindfulness according to gender and in religious consciousness according to age. In addition, it was revealed that there is a positive and significant relationship between religious consciousness and mindfulness, and that religious consciousness is a significant predictor of mindfulness. It is thought that these results are important in terms of providing data for new studies on the subject.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yasemin ANGIN']
Yayın Yılı: 17 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Gümüşhane Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gifad/issue/71277/1083881
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2294185
