Makale Başlığı: RSSI and Flower Pollination Algorithm Based Location Estimation for Wireless Sensor Networks
Özet: Abstract:Wireless Sensor Networks(WSN’s) have been finding to itself new applications continuously. Many ofthese applications need location information of nodes. The localization ofnodes can be made by range based or range free localization methods conventionally.Angle-of-Arrival (AoA), Time-Difference-of-Arrival (TDoA), Received SignalStrength Indicator (RSSI), Time-of-Arrival (ToA) are well known range basedmethods. Therefore AoA, ToA and TDoA have some hardware and softwaredifficulties for nodes which have limited processing and power sources. HoweverRSSI based localization doesn’t cost high processing resources or complexhardware modifications. Most of the WSN nodes already have RSSI measurementcapability. However RSSI measurements is vulnerable to noise and environmentaleffects. Therefore error of RSSI based localization can be over to anacceptable level. Centroid,APIT, DV-Hop and Amorphous are some of the range free localization methods.Range free methods can only give location information approximately but theydon’t need any extra hardware or high processing capability. In this studyWSN nodes are assumed randomly or regularly distributed on a certain area. Someof the nodes are beacon nodes. The beacon nodes are assumed as having higherpower resources and GPS receivers. The locations of nodes are assumed as fixed.The beacon nodes send their location information sequentially. Localization ofnodes are made through RSSI and location information of beacon nodes. The meanof RSSI is calculated to reduce effect of noise on it. A rough locationestimation made by weighted centroid. A probabilistic based location estimationand flower pollination algorithm (FPA) are used separately to make finaldecision about the location. Rough estimates are used to limit search area offlower pollination algorithm in order to reduce convergence time.
Yazar isimleri: ['Erhan Sesli', 'Gökçe Hacıoğlu']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Aralık 2016
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Intelligent Systems and Applications in Engineering
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijisae/issue/25999/265424
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/231833
