Makale Başlığı: Fatigue in patients with Parkinson’s disease: Motor and Non-motor Clinical Associations
Özet: Objective: Fatigue is one of the common non-motor symptoms of Parkinson’s disease (PD). In this study, weaimed to investigate the prevalence of fatigue in PD patients and to determine the fatigue-relateddemographic, motor and non-motor disease characteristics.Materials and Methods: One hundred seventy-eight idiopathic PD patients were enrolled in the study (meanage 64.8±10.8 years). Demographic data and disease-related motor and non-motor clinical characteristicswere recorded and total daily levodopa equivalent dose (LED) was calculated. Modified Hoehn and YahrStaging (mHY), 'Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale' (UPDRS) part II and III, Parkinson Fatigue Scale (PFS),Mini-Mental State Examination and semi-structured non-motor symptom questionnaire were used to assessthe patients. Patients were divided into two groups according to the score of PFS3.3 as PD without fatigue,PFS≥3.3 as PD with fatigue. Then we compared the disease characteristics between the two groups. Bivariateassociations were analyzed using the chi-square and the independent samples t-test.Results: The fatigue prevalence was 48.9% in all PD patients. There was no significant difference betweengroups regarding age and the duration of disease, but the mean LED in PD patients with fatigue wassignificantly higher than without fatigue (p=0.011). Parkinson’s disease stage, activities of daily living anddisease severity were not different between two groups. Orthostatic hypotension and sleep disturbancessuch as restless legs syndrome (RLS) and REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) were significantly frequent in PDgroup with fatigue (p=0.02, p=0.004, p=0.005 respectively).Conclusion: Fatigue affects about 50% of PD patients. Association of fatigue and non-motor symptoms mayreflect the dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic underlying pathologic mechanisms. 
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 16 Aralık 2017
Dergi ismi: Ankara Üniversitesi Tıp Fakültesi Mecmuası
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/autfm/issue/36182/407538
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/443546
