Makale Başlığı: Quality Control Application on Tile Production Line in Natural Stone Factory
Özet: Enterprises request the product they produce in a competitive environment to be constantly demanded. One of the most important factors in the continuous demand for the produced product is that it is a quality product. It is the quality control throughout the production process in order to have the desired quality product. The main purpose of Quality Control is to identify and prevent production defects and to produce standard goods. Quality control is important in the industry, as well as in natural stone production. Especially the measurable characteristics of the tiles produced in natural stone factories, such as thickness, width, length, square and surface properties, are the first thing that the customer pays attention to. The tile features that cannot be measured but important in terms of quality are corner cracks, surface filling gaps and defects caused by edge processing features. In the marble processing factory, after the semi-finished product produced in each operation, measurement control, vein-crack-fracture and color homogeneity control should be performed before the next operation. It is important in terms of establishing the quality standards of the final products offered to the customer in the marble sector and ensuring the continuity in quality. Quality control studies should be carried out at certain stages in slabs and tiles in marble factories. In this study,beige marble tiles of 30,5x30,5x1,25 cm sizes taken as an example from the tile production line of a marble factory in Isparta are marbles coming out of the same production line, which shows the quality characteristic of stone in general. After measuring the measurable characteristics of the samples taken such as width, height, thickness, miter and surface brightness, Shewhart control graphs were applied to these obtained data. As a result of X-S control graphs, some deviations in production have been observed. In the marble sector, which is important in terms of customer satisfaction, the reasons should be investigated taking into account these deviations in quality control, customer satisfaction should be brought to the maximum level.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 17 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Çukurova Üniversitesi Mühendislik Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cukurovaumfd/issue/73044/1190331
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2713387
