Makale Başlığı: Determination of the effects of Chia (Salvia hispanica L.) oil and Dandelion (Taraxacum Officinale) extract on Tumor Necrosis Factor-α (TNF-α) and Interleukin 6 (IL-6) release in liver tissue of diabetic rats
Özet: Objective: This study aimed to investigate the effects of Chia (Salvia hispanica L.) oil and Dandelion (Taraxacum Officinale) extract on Tumor Necrosis Factor-α (TNF-α) and Interleukin 6 (IL-6) release in liver tissue of diabetic rats. Material and Method: Experimental groups were created as control, sham, chia, dandelion, diabetes (DM), diabetes+chia (DC), and diabetes +dandelion (DD). Body weight and blood glucose measurements were taken on the 1st, 3rd, and 17th days of the study and evaluated statistically. A one-way ANOVA test was performed to determine the differences between the groups. The Duncan test was used to compare significant differences between groups. At the end of the study, Masson's trichrome staining and Hematoxylin-Eosin staining were employed for histological examinations of liver tissues, and the distribution of TNF-α and IL-6 was examined by applying the Streptavidin-biotin peroxidase method. Results: It was determined that body weight and blood glucose measurements were significantly decrease for the DC group compared to other groups. Immunoreactivity of TNF-α and IL-6 was found to decrease in DC and DD groups at close to the control levels. Conclusion: Based on our results, it was thought that the use of chia and dandelion in diabetes may contribute to the alleviation of disease-related complications by having a positive effect on proinflammatory cytokine levels.
Yazar isimleri: ['Şükran ARAS', 'Pinar AKSU KILIÇLE', 'Sevda ELİŞ YILDIZ', 'Erhan ULUMAN', 'Buket BAKIR', 'Ebru KARADAĞ SARI', 'Serpil DAĞ']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Journal of Veterinary Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tjvr/issue/73416/1062162
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2209229
