Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of Modern Monetary Theory and Helicopter Money Approach in The Framework of The Covid-19 Pandemic
Özet: Countries are taking various measures to moderate the effects of the economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. One of them is the announced fiscal stimulus packages. An important part of these fiscal stimulus measures put into practice mostly in developed countries is in the form of "helicopter money", which is accepted as an application of the Modern Monetary Theory. The main goal of the helicopter money application is to prevent the economy from entering a deep recession by stimulating the total demand that decreased during the crisis period. Hence, helicopter money is expected to  increase household consumption and lower savings rates primarily. The realization of this expectation may result in an increase in inflation rates. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of the Modern Monetary Theory and its application, the helicopter money, on consumption, saving and inflation within the framework of The Covid-19 process. Despite the huge fiscal stimulus measures in developed countries, it is observed that consumption expenditures decreased and savings increased. Although this situation causes the inflation rates to decrease, it is considered that the deferred demand and increased savings will increase the inflation rates to an undesirable point after the vaccination level reaches a sufficient level and the restrictions are relaxed. Therefore, in order to increase aggregate demand and prevent sudden increases in inflation, besides fiscal incentives, it is necessary to take measures that provide an environment of economic confidence and eliminate uncertainties.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zeki AKBAKAY']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Bingöl Üniversitesi İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/biibfad/issue/72366/940037
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1778352
