Makale Başlığı: Compulsory Teleworking Due to Covid-19 Pandemic and Technology-Based Supervision
Özet: In the twentieth century, supervision started to increase along with the progress in all technical fields, and this situation also extended to the supervision of employees. During the Covid 19 pandemic, some occupational groups were asked to perform their jobs with the assistance of information technologies. Many lines of work that can be mostly done by white-collar employees in the public and private sector were forced to switch to teleworking. In the form of teleworking, which is switched to by necessity, it is preferred to supervise the employees through the technologies used, instead of performing physical supervision on the employees. Supervision is one of the indispensable actions for the management science, whose history is not so old. The workplaces have enabled their employees to work quickly by dividing the works so that these employees could produce more products. Afterwards, the workplaces controlled the production amount over the speed of the production line; in this manner, they were able to supervise the amount of production and the employees. The work done by employees was supervised through technology while teleworking during the pandemic process, and the process claimed in the past regarding the supervision was realized quickly. Employees were forced to constantly check their technological tools, and business life started to encompass the time allocated to private life.Unlike the pandemic studies conducted in the past, the study draws attention to the limits of the supervision on the employees and the increase in their workload. It is believed to continue the established infrastructure facilities and to use them in similar situations as well. For this reason, it is determined that the technology-based supervision gained importance and will also continue to be significant.
Yazar isimleri: ['Songül DEMİREL DEĞİRMENCİ']
Yayın Yılı: 7 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Online Journal of Design Art and Communication
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tojdac/issue/72513/1143583
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2537543
