Makale Başlığı: Examining the Discipline Models That Can be Applied in the Classroom Management Process of Preschool Teachers: A Review Article
Özet: Discipline is an important dimension of classroom management. Preschool teachers can apply many discipline models in the classroom management process. These models can be used to prevent a behavior problem before it occurs, or they can also be used in the process of dealing with an existing problem or inappropriate behavior. While supportive and appropriate disciplinary practices facilitate the classroom management process, unsupportive practices can negatively affect it. For this reason, it is very important to consider the discipline models that teachers can apply in the classroom management process. The purpose of this review article is to examine the discipline models that can be applied in the preschool classroom management process. To this end, first of all, the concept of classroom management was defined and the factors affecting classroom management are mentioned. Then, discipline models, which are an important element of classroom management, and the basic points of these models are discussed. Next, the ways that teachers can follow in the process of applying the models and the roles of teachers and children are mentioned. After that, the strengths and weaknesses of the models are given. In this way, it is aimed that teachers have an idea about different discipline strategies, and it is aimed that they can more easily choose the appropriate strategies for classroom management processes. In addition, it is thought that knowing the different discipline models that can be applied in the preschool period will help teachers to realize their educational goals and achievements.
Yazar isimleri: ['Şengül PALA']
Yayın Yılı: 24 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Temel Eğitim Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/te-ad/issue/73185/1101590
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2366716
