Makale Başlığı: COVID-19 Pandemic Experiences of Residents: A Qualitative Study
Özet: Aim: The COVID-19 pandemic has had an unprecedented impact on the healthcare system and professionals worldwide. This study aims to explore the residents' experiences working in medical and surgical fields in Hacettepe University hospitals during the early months of the COVID-19 pandemic and investigate the effects of the pandemic on their lives and education.Methods: The research is designed as a Qualitative research. We obtained the data through in-depth interviews with nine residents working at the forefront of the pandemic, maintaining their postgraduate education at Hacettepe University Faculty of Medicine. We used content analysis to analyze the data.Results: Residents discussed the effects of the COVID-19 epidemic on their professional, psychosocial and educational lives with a broad perspective. They defined the modifications in working conditions, professional and institutional approaches, the professional conflicts caused by the pandemic, the effects of the pandemic on patient treatment/care, and the gains from experience as the effects of the COVID-19 epidemic on their professional lives. Besides family and friends' support, faculty members have an essential role in supporting residents. The residents stressed the importance of society's cooperation in managing the pandemic. They stated that the decision-makers and their institutions did not meet their expectations. They explained the pandemic's main psychosocial effect: the fear of infecting family members, social adaptation, and social stigma. The residents stated that the pandemic caused disruptions and changes in medical education. They indicated that undergraduate medical education was insufficient to prepare health professionals for extraordinary conditions. The residents suggested that the management of exceptional conditions topics such as epidemics, pandemics, and disasters should be included in medical education.Conclusions: COVID-19 has affected many aspects of residents' lives. Although this experience provided some gains, the pandemic experience revealed the weaknesses of medical education, university, hospital management and government. The pandemic caused changes in professional life, tensions in work environments, and psychosocial difficulties. It is worrying that undergraduate medical education programs are insufficient to prepare health professionals for crises in the health system. The pandemic caused disruptions in residency education. Academic, professional, and psychological support of faculty members has been critical in ensuring the residents' motivation during the pandemic. Stakeholders should consider the suggestions and needs of residents, and medical education programs should be reviewed to achieve competencies related to disaster/crisis management. This effort is the responsibility of all partners to the young physicians who witnessed the most memorable period of history and society, which is the subject of health service delivery.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bürge ATILGAN', 'Nazmiye CELİK', 'Melih ELÇİN', 'Sevgi TURAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Tıp Eğitimi Dünyası
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ted/issue/72238/1092139
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2327548
