Makale Başlığı: STUDENT OPINIONS ON THE EFFICIENCY OF SIMPLIFIED GERMAN AUDIOBOOKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE LEARNING PROCESSES
Özet: This study aims to show the effects of the audiobook forms of linguistically simplified literary works, a new media product, on foreign language learning processes from different perspectives since new media are taking place in current teaching theories and design of foreign language teaching. In the study, applied experimental research was carried out within the framework of linguistically simplified audiobooks. The research was designed with the participation of fifty-four students within the scope of the reading comprehension course. The aim is to clarify the advantages and disadvantages of audiobooks in foreign language acquisition and the development of foreign language skills. In addition to this, an answer is sought to the question of whether audiobooks are effective in enriching the course content, increasing reading motivation, and acquiring different strategies in language learning. Based on the research results for these questions, it was determined that the students abstained from them in the first survey because they did not have full knowledge of audiobooks. Therefore, more participants in the second survey compared to the first survey preferred audiobooks instead of printed books as additional material to improve their language skills, increase motivation for reading, and improve reading techniques and strategies. In addition, the multimedia feature of audiobooks helps to increase concentration during reading. Considering the participants' desire for alternative information transfer tools and the materials they use to appeal to many senses, it can be interpreted that their hesitations about new media products stem from ignorance. Based on the research results, it is thought that it would be beneficial to use audiobooks as auxiliary material in developing various language skills in learning a foreign language in the classroom reading comprehension lesson.
Yazar isimleri: ['Harun GÖÇERLER', 'Nurseda KALEMCİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Bingöl Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://busbed.bingol.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/73192/1127789
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2474038
