Makale Başlığı: Investigation of Verbal and Visual Values in Award-Winning Illustrated Children's Books
Özet: An individual’s value-acquisition process begins at a very young age and is shaped by one’s experiences throughout life.  Childhood is the most critical stage of an individual’s values education, and children’s picture books, written specifically for children, are among the first materials children encounter that reflect values.  As such, children’s picture books play an important role in a child’s education and subsequent acquisition of values. For this reason, it is important to examine the values, negative elements, and behaviors reflected in children's picture books. The purpose of this research was to reveal the values, negative elements, and behaviors found in the texts and visuals of 25 nationally or internationally awarded children's picture books.   The document analysis method of research was used for the study, and the selection of the children's picture books was determined by the purposive sampling method.  Although many award-winning children's picture books were examined within the scope of this research, only 25 award-winning children's picture books with high national or international quality were ultimately included in this study.  The content analysis method of research was used to analyze the children's picture books that constituted the research data source.  The negative elements and behaviors in the text and visuals in the children's picture books were also examined, coded, and categorized under designated headings. As a result of the examinations, it was determined that the most common values were friendship (85) and determination (83), and the least common values were justice (3), cleanliness (3), respect (2), and frugality (1). The most common negative factors and behaviors were harmful habits (9), greed (7), ridicule (7), and hatred (7).  The least common negative factors and behaviors were theft (1), deceitfulness (1), desire to take revenge. (1) and taking a bribe (1).
Yazar isimleri: ['Mücahit DURMAZ', 'Bilal YORULMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Sosyal Bilimler ve Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/usbed/issue/70167/1081772
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2285487
