Makale Başlığı: An Investigation of Gifted High School Students’ Bioethical Approaches to Genetics and Biotechnology Applications in terms of 21st Century Skills and Basic Scientific Literacy Skills
Özet: In this study, it is aimed to examine the bioethics approaches of gifted high school students towards genetic and biotechnology applications and to determine whether these approaches have changed in terms of basic scientific literacy skills and 21st century skills. For this purpose, the quantitative research method and the relational model included in the general survey model were used in the study. The study was carried out with 107 gifted students in the Research, Development Education and Application Center High School in Üsküdar, İstanbul, in the fall semester of the 2021-2022 academic year. In the study, the bioethics approach scale, basic scientific literacy scale and 21st century skills scale, for which ethical permissions were obtained, were applied. In the analysis of the data, the chi-square test was used to reveal whether there is a relationship between categorical variables as well as descriptive statistics. As a result of the research, it was determined that the students were undecided in some of the genetic and biotechnology applications, but they mostly supported them. Judging from the bioethical approaches adopted, the right approach was the most followed, followed by the benefit approach. After these two approaches, the science-based approach took place. In addition, it has been concluded that basic scientific literacy skills and 21st century skills have an effect on students' adoption of these approaches. Based on these results, it has been suggested that genetic and biotechnology applications should be increased in teaching processes by developing an instructional model that includes 21st century skills and basic scientific literacy skills in the education of gifted students.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Eğitim Kuram ve Uygulama Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ekuad/issue/72435/1169293
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2625497
