Makale Başlığı: Comparison of Inventories in term of TPL, TAS 2 and FRPS LME: An Application
Özet: Globalization has revealed significant needs in the field of accounting, which is a social science, as in all other fields. In order to adapt to the conjuncture that rapidly changes due to the effects of globalization, the need has arisen to adjust the accounting rules and practices in enterprises. Therefore, it is aimed to base the accounting transactions related to inventories on a particular standard. The theme of inventories was dealt within the scope of the provisions of the Tax Procedure Law (TPL), Turkish Accounting Standards (TAS) 2 and the Chapter 6 of the Financial Reporting Standard for Large and Medium-Sized Enterprises (FRPS LME).  In the study, first of all, inventories were compared in terms of the TAS 2 standard, TPL and FRPS LME, and the similarities and differences between the regulations were emphasized. It was determined that the regulations are mostly compatible with each other, but there are some fundamental differences as well. It was concluded that these differences are basically related to borrowing costs and exchange differences for inventories, delay interests in inventory costs, valuation of inventories and cost methods depending upon the scope.In the study, the provisions of the TAS 2, TPL and FRPS LME on inventories were compared and it was aimed to determine the effect of the TAS 2 standard, TPL and FRPS LME on the balance sheet and income statement items of a production company in accordance with the fundamental differences between them. The method chosen in the study for this purpose is the case study method, and observation and interview methods were used in addition to this method. In the study, it was concluded that the balance sheet and income statement items of the company changed with the application of the standards.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yüksel AYDIN', 'Görkem ÇERİKCİOĞLU ÇELİK']
Yayın Yılı: 16 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Cumhuriyet Üniversitesi İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://esjournal.cumhuriyet.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/71333/1098840
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2354795
