Makale Başlığı: Reduce the Prayer Debt and Turnover in Islamic Law (Ottoman Application)
Özet: As it has been the scene of debates in the history of Islamic law, one of the issues that is still up to date and still causes controversy is the issue of reduce the prayer debt (ıskât-ı salat) and turnover. In Islamic law, the deceased person’s debts for prayers are calculated separately for each prayer and their ransom is given to the poor. In this way, the process of reducing the debts of prayers is called ıskât-ı salat. There is neither a verse nor a hadith mentioning the permissibility of ıskât-ı slat. The first opinion that ıskât-ı salat is permissible belongs to Imam Muhammad, one of the Hanafis, at the end of the second century of hijri. By using the expression wish (hopefully), he states that such a thing can be demanded from Allah. According to him, it is possible (with the expression of wish) to reduce the prayer debt of the deceased by comparing it to the debt of fasting. Except for some, the majority of Shafiis, Malikis and Hanbalis are of the opinion that ıskât-ı salat is not permissible. A remedy (cheat) has been found by Hanafi scholars to reduce the excessive amount of ransom payable by those who owe a lot of prayer. The process, which was later named as the turnover, has been permissible since the fifth century of the hijri. The turnover is the giving of some money to the poor as a ransom, the poor accepting it, returning the money to the giver, giving the same money back to the poor as a ransom, and this process continues until the ransom amount is reached. In this study, the issue of ıskât-ı salat and turnover in the Ottoman practice of Islamic law will be discussed. It is known that Hanafism was accepted as the official sect in the Ottoman period. In the study, fatwa journals, ıskât-ı salat tractate and court decisions will be used. The aim of the study will be to determine in which period the name of the turnover was put in the history of Islamic law and to determine whether the views of the Hanafi sect were applied in the Ottoman period, in terms of ıskât-ı salat and the turnover. It is hoped that this study will make a small contribution to the history of Islamic law.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet KOÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 18 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Kilitbahir
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kilitbahir/issue/72601/1143990
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2539135
