Makale Başlığı: HASAN TAHSİN RECEB AND HIS VIEWS ON THE UNIONISTS DURING THE PERIOD OF THE ARMISTICE OF MUDROS ACCORDING TO THE NEWSPAPERS IN WHICH HE WAS THE LEAD WRITER (November 6, 1918-May 15, 1919)
Özet: In this study, the life of the real Tahsin Efendi/Hasan Tahsin and Nevres Bey/Osman Nevres, who used his identity, are evaluated within the framework of new information. In addition, the role played by Talat Pasha and Mahmut Celal Bey (Bayar) in the arrival of Hasan Tahsin Receb, a member of the Committee of Union and Progress and Teşkilat-ı Mahsusa, to Izmir to do business, is emphasized.Hasan Tahsin Receb's publishing of newspapers named Hukuk-u Beşer, Öz Hukuk-u Beşer, Sulh ve Selamet and again Hukuk-u Beşer after the Armistice of Mudros are discussed. For the first time, sections from the life of Dr. Avni Muhittin, who was the responsible director of all the mentioned newspapers, are presented. On the other hand, Hasan Tahsin Receb’s relation with Sulh ve Selamet Community/Party, the office he took there, his declaration of Öz Hukuk-u Beşer newspaper as the public speaker of the party and then publishing a newspaper which carry the name of the party are emphasized.With the re-activation of the Freedom and Accord Party, the practices against the Unionists accelerated as a result of the establishment of the governments of Damat Ferit Pasha. In this context, it is seen that Hasan Tahsin Receb wrote various articles in his newspapers about the Committee of Union and Progress and the Izmir members of the party (Haydar Rüştü; owner and lead writer of Anadolu and Duygu newspapers, Governor Rahmi, Sezai Bey; Director of Industry School, Alaiyeli Mahmut, etc.). In addition, in this study, the proofs of how Hasan Tahsin Receb came to agree with the ideas of Sulh ve Selamet and Freedom and Accord Party after the Armistice of Mudros and with what words he attacked the Unionists who trained him from primary school are cited from his own writings. In addition, his view of homeland, nation, and Damat Ferit Pasha with examples from his editorials are revealed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammet GÜÇLÜ']
Yayın Yılı: 13 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Tarih ve Günce
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tarihvegunce/issue/72558/1160140
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2588724
