Makale Başlığı: Analysis of Nursing Students' Stress Experienced In Simulation Education, Individualized Care Giving and Satisfaction Status
Özet: Aim: The aim of study is to determine level of stress perceived and individualized care situations perceived by nursing students before and after simulation education and satisfaction levels for post-training simulation practice.Material and Methods: The sample of research, which was carried out using semi-experimental study method, consists of 148 students in a faculty of nursing. Sociodemographic Data Collection Form, Perceived Stress Scale, Individualized Care Scale-Nurse Version (ICS-A) and Student Satisfaction and Self-confidence in Learning Scale were used to collect data before and after the simulation education. Simulation education was carried out on 4 cases: preeclampsia-eclampsia, postpartum hemorrhage, gestational diabetes and methods of contraception.Results: Perceived stress scale mean score of the students after simulation training (60.88±31.07) was lower than pre- training level and ICS-A mean score (4.43±0.68) was higher after training. Perceived stress scale mean score of students who stated that they were satisfied with nursing profession (69.00±28.46) were low, and ICS-A mean score (4.33±0.64) was high in pre-training period. Pre-training ICS-A mean score of students who prefer profession willingly (4.30±0.86) was higher compared to other students. After training, Student Satisfaction and Self-confidence in Learning Scale mean score was found 22.21±3.01.Conclusion: Simulation education given in order to ensure that they have a positive experience when they encounter the real patient reduces level of stress perceived by students and increases their individualized care skills. Simulation training given to the students creates satisfaction in learning.
Yazar isimleri: ['Burçin BEKTAŞ PARDES', 'Esra ÖZER']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Sağlık Bilimlerinde Değer
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sabd/issue/72485/1171577
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2634954
