Makale Başlığı: Historıcal Process To Site-Specific Art: Representatıon Of Modernism And Critical Thought On The Site
Özet: The first traces of Site-specific Art, which is identified with the space, can be found in cave paintings, as in most otherdisciplines. Site-specific Art, which is seen in houses and temples over time, takes part in the meaning of architectureas a part of it and an element that complements it. Folly architecture is the first breaking point of Site-specific Artthat progresses in a functional line. However, this style is not a reckoning with the space, it is just the expression ofa thought, belief, and dysfunctional architecture with a message. In re-readings of Site-specific Art, rarity cabinetsare shown as the starting point of medium-oriented installations. However, the goal is not criticism, but exhibition.Dada movements are the first break in which media-oriented art comes to terms with the space and critical thoughtsare put forward. With modernism, the former functional and pragmatic character of Site-specific Art changes; evolvesinto a critical and conceptual dimension. In the movements that emerged with modernism, the first examples of media-oriented art reckoning with the space appear on a larger scale by going out of the space in the Postmodern period.Site-specific Art which finds a new area of expression with a critical perspective, transforms into an art form whereartists actively make space a part of their discourse. In this article, it is reinterpreted how Site-specific Art becamedysfunctional in the period from Dada movements to Modernism until the 1950s, why it came to terms with the spaceand how it used the space. The structure that goes back and forth from holistic art to Surrealism, from functionality tocritical thinking, and the forms of expression of Site-specific Art are examined. While one is concerned with givinga positive message to architecture with an aesthetic view, the other has a rebellion against questioning the space andthe system. However, both try to add value to the space with an artistic touch.
Yazar isimleri: ['Özlem VARGÜN']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: UNIMUSEUM
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/unimuseum/issue/67041/892110
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1621325
