Makale Başlığı: Investigation of Plasma Amino Acid Profile in Patients with Acute Pancreatitis
Özet: Background: Acute pancreatitis (AP) is a non-bacterial acute inflammation of the pancreas that develops as a result of glandin digestion, with its enzymes leaking and activating into the parenchyma. It plays an important role in the formation of deprotein blocks as metabolic intermediates in the processes of amino acids organisms and forms an important part of metabolomic analysis. Amino acidopathies; Patients with AP show gastrointestinal dysfunction in nutrition such as acute metabolic decompensation, nausea, vomiting and gastroesophageal and abdominal pain. For this purpose, this study is to evaluate the role of the amino acid profile in the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis and that the plasma amino acid profile may play a role as a marker for its associated variation in patients with acute pancreatitis.Materials and Methods: Approximately 65 patients with acute pancreatitis were included in the study. Patients studied were included with typical abdominal pain, a 3-5-fold increase in serum amylase and lipase upper limit. In the healthy control group, 50 people were selected who had no existing disease history and pathological status.Amino acid profile measurement in plasma was examined by 8045 LC-MS / MS device.Results: In our study, the amino acids in the serum amino acid profile of patients with acute pancreatitis significantly increased the amino acids 1- methyl histidine, 2-aminoadipic acid, 2minobutric acid, 3-methyl histidine, aspartate, citrulline, glutamine methionine and valine amino acids; however, 5-hydroxyline, alanine, cysteine, tyrosine and isoleucine levels were found to be significantly decreased compared to the healthy control group (P <0.01).Keywords: Acute Pancreatitis, Free Amino acid profile, LC-MS/MSConclusion: Physiological amino acid concentrations depend on the functions of organs and pathological conditions can alter metabolism. In recent years, amino acid profiling has been suggested in medicine as a potential marker in metabolic diseases, some scientists, acute pancratitis patients, diet proteins and amino acids have been able to regulate pancreatic function. In addition, although the proteolytic enzymes of the pancreas play a role in the formation of pancreatic inflammation, the mechanisms by which these enzymes in inactive form are activated within the pancreatic tissue are still controversial. Arginine, which is an amino acid, is metabolised to urea and ornithine with the enzyme arginase. Among the amino acids of methionine and ornithine, the combinations of polyamines, spermidine, spermin and butressins are obtained. Polyamines play an important role in cell proliferation by stimulating nucleotide and protein synthesis in cells. Levels of plasma amino acids showed the net effect of all factors affecting the flow of amino acids in the body. It is thought that the changes occurring in the presence of the infection may be transmitted by the amino acids in the plasma of these patients. As a result of our study in patients with acute pancreatitis infection, the presence of some amino acids in patients with acute pancreatitis infection is to show that these amino acids have an important role in the development of the infection and to assist physicians in deciding on this issue.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nihayet BAYRAKTAR', 'Ataman GÖNEL', 'İsmail KOYUNCU', 'Ahmet UYANIKOĞLU', 'Mehmet Tevfik BAYRAKTAR', 'Hamza ERDOĞDU']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Harran Üniversitesi Tıp Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/hutfd/issue/71631/1070511
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2242044
