Makale Başlığı: THE STEREOLOGICAL AND LIGHT MICROSCOPY INVESTIGATION OF THE EFFECT OF NIGELLA SATIVA EXTRACT CAS: 490-91-5 ON VASCULAR CHANGES IN EXPERIMENTAL SUBARACHNOID HEMORRHAGE MODEL
Özet: Objective: In this study, the effect of Nigella Sativa Extract CAS: 490-91-5 The effects on vasospasm in rats was investigated in an experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage model. Material and Method: 60 male Wistar albino rats were divided into 6 groups as follows; Group 1 (control), group 2 (sham), group 3 (decapitation, one hour after subarachnoid hemorrhage), group 4 (decapitation, 48 hours after subarachnoid hemorrhage), group 5 (6 hours prior to subarachnoid hemorrhage thymoquinone injection and one hour later after subarachnoid hemorrhage decapitation), group 6 (thymoquinone injection 1, 24 and 48 hours later subarachnoid hemorrhage and decapitation after the last injection). Thymoquinone that was prepared in the Atatürk University Biochemistry Laboratory via dilatation of dimethyl sulfoxide was injected intraperitoneally with the dose of 5mg/kg to the rats. 8 rats died during the procedure. The basilar artery lumen size and wall thickness of the remaining 52 rats were investigated with a stereological histopathologically approach after decapitation. Results: The widening of basilar artery lumen of group 5 (one dose of thymoquinone) and group 6 (3 doses of thymoquinone after subarachnoid hemorrhage) is statistically significantly increased than group 3 (no thymoquinone injection). The difference of artery wall thicknesses between thymoquinone injected groups (5 and 6) and non-thymoquinone injected groups (3-4) are also statistically significant. This result indicates that the thymoquinone effectively makes a significant difference to the wall thickness, thymoquinone injected groups have decreased wall thickness. Conclusion: The result of this study shows that thyquinone scans prevents vasospasm related to subarachnoid hemorrhage. Further studies that use this agent in clinical trials are needed to show the clinical effects of thymoquinone.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Atatürk Üniversitesi Tıp Fakültesi Cerrahi Tıp Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jsmsau/issue/71468/1146825
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2550562
