Makale Başlığı: EFFECT OF CONSUMER ETHNOCENTRISM ON PURCHASE INTENTION OF CONSUMERS IN MYANMAR TEXTILE MARKET
Özet: Purpose- Ethnocentrism in consumers plays an vital role in predicting user behavior when deciding between imported and domestic goods. Thisresearch works tries to identify the consumer ethnocentrism of consumers in Myanmar textile market. The specific objectives of this studyare to examine the consumer ethnocentrism of consumers in Myanmar textile market and to investigate the effect of consumerethnocentrism on purchase intention of consumers in Myanmar textile market.Methodology- The study area was Myanmar market. The selected sample size was 386 consumers who have buying experiences for localtextile clothes. The convince sampling method used in this study. The research instrument used as survey questionnaire for collect the data.The structure questionnaire was used for this study. There were three parts in questionnaire- the first one demographic section and the lastis consumer ethnocentrism scale. According to the CEESCALE model, consumer ethnocentrism scale was 19 items for all variables. Purchaseintention has 5 items. 5 points Likert scale questions types used for measure the consumer ethnocentrism and purchase intention. Descriptiveanalysis and multiple linear regression method were used in this study in order to analyze the collected data. Moreover, reliability analysiswas used for analyze the reliable of collected data under each variable.Findings- This study found that insecurity, habituation and prosociality have strongly significant effect on purchase intention of consumersin Myanmar textile market. In addition, the mean value of purchase intention 3.8 that above the natural scale and nearly reach to the agreestatement.Conclusion- After analyze the collected data this study determined that consumer ethnocentrism affect consumers' purchase intentions. Bymeasuring the consumer ethnocentric tendencies managers can create a database that will be fruitfully incorporated into marketing strategydevelopment. This study concluded that CEESCALE model is a tool for verify the interesting results in other developing countries. Themanagerial implications and suggestions of the research are discussed in detail.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Management Marketing and Logistics
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jmml/issue/72683/1179854
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2669777
