Makale Başlığı: How does the transparent peer review process work?
Özet: Peer review, which refers to the review of manuscripts by field experts in the field before they are published, became a mainstream practice in the 20th century. Peer review is a necessary practice to evaluate the quality of scientific articles. Eskiyeni decided to publish the reviewer reports, and author responses to these reports, alongside the article to all readers in March 2022. This practice is known as “transparent peer review,” TPR for short. With the TPR, peer the reviewers' reports, the authors' responses, and the editors' decision letters are all published, alongside the article. The TPR implies greater accountability while less opportunity for review fraud, bias, or manipulation of results. As of March 2022, all reviewers were informed that their reports will be published alongside the article, without disclosing their identities. This practice will help promote transparency in the peer review process. Thus, the author and readers will be able to see the evaluation process the article went through until it was published. In addition, this practice will inform researchers planning to publish an article for the first time about how the refereeing process works. Eskiyeni operates a two-stage process in the review of submitted manuscripts: the Internal editorial review and the external review process. Immediately after submission, the editor checks the manuscript to check if it fits the journal's purpose and scope and adheres to principles of ethical research and writing standards. Afterward, the editor sends the manuscripts that complies with the journal's publication policy to the assistant editor for editorial review. At this stage, three internal reviewers take charge. The editor selects one of the assistant editors as the first internal reviewer. The assistant editor examines the manuscript for compliance with the journal writing rules and checks the manuscript for plagiarism through Turnitin. During this process, the reviewers' identity is visible to the author and vice versa. The assistant editor determines the other two internal reviewers from the members of the editorial board based on their field of expertise. Internal reviewers evaluate the manuscript in terms of its subject, method, and results and decide whether it should be sent to external review for detailed evaluation. The external review is double-blind review; that is, the author and the reviewers do not know each other.  The section editor selects two external reviewers among researchers who have carried out research on the manuscript’s topic. The reviewers evaluate the article in detail in terms of its subject, method, and results and write their recommendations about whether the paper should be published or not. If both reviewers' reports are positive, the study is accepted for publication with the decision of the editor. Manuscripts can be published with the positive decision of at least two reviewers. The editor rereads the manuscript accepted for publication. It is then submitted to the language editor for English editing. Finally, the peer reviewers’ reports, authors’ responses, and editors’ decision letters are all published, alongside the accepted articles. This process is fully compatible with journals using single or double anonymized review.
Yazar isimleri: ['Abdullah DEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Eskiyeni
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/eskiyeni/issue/72632/1179897
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2669914
