Makale Başlığı: Health Importance, Exposure and Toxicity of Vanadium
Özet: Vanadium is a trace element widely distributed in nature and is found in almost all living organisms, including humans. Although the importance of vanadium in humans and animals is still unclear, lower concentrations are essential for microorganisms, plants and animals, and its deficiency in living organisms is associated with many adverse effects. Displaying a wide variety of pharmacological properties in humans, vanadium has become an ingredient in dietary supplements to treat diabetes due to its insulin imitating effect. Vanadium protects plasma, blood hemoglobin is not affected by V deficiency, but V-deficient diets increase the activities of creatinine, triglycerides, β-lipoprotein and enzyme-like glutamyl transferase and citrate acid cycle without altering amino acid metabolism. It is reported that it reduces cholesterol levels, heart disease, syphilis, tuberculosis, anemia and edema, plays a role in increasing the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin and myoglobin, and is necessary for iodine metabolism and thyroid function. It is necessary for bone collagen synthesis, osteogenic and osteoblastic activity by facilitating calcium deposition in bones, has serum lipid lowering ability, acts as a potential antioxidant agent in diabetic conditions. Vanadium compounds are known to play a role in immune regulation and can be used as promising metal drugs for future immunotherapy. It plays a role in the cardiovascular and nervous system. It also plays a role as anti-parasitic, anti-viral, anti-HIV, anti-tuberculosis, anti-bacterial and anti-tumor agents, but vanadium formed in soil at an average concentration of 90 mg / kg has been recognized as a potentially hazardous contaminant. High levels can produce significant toxic effects. Excess vanadium in humans can increase the risk of morphological and functional lesions in the kidneys, liver, spleen, bones, and leukocytes. In this review article, we aimed to examine the effects of vanadium on our health and to investigate the toxic effects of vanadium as well as its benefits.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fazilet GÖK', 'Suat EKİN']
Yayın Yılı: 12 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Osmaniye Korkut Ata Üniversitesi Fen Bilimleri Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/okufbed/issue/73710/1060675
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2203399
