Makale Başlığı: INVESTIGATION OF THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN GROWTH FEAR, SEPARATION ANXIETY AND DEFENSE MECHANISMS IN ADULTS
Özet: The aim of this study is to examine the relationship between growth fear, separation anxiety and defense mechanisms in adults. Relational screening model was used in the research. The sample group of the study consists of 171 adult individuals. 56.73% of the participants were female and 43.27% male. Sociodemographic Information Form, Growth Fear Scale, Adult Separation Anxiety Questionnaire and Defense Styles Test were administered to the participants. Data collection was carried out online (Google Forms) through convenient sampling. The analysis of the data obtained in this study was made with SPSS 25.00, and One-way Analysis of Variance (One-way ANOVA) and independent samples T-Test were performed for difference analysis according to demographic variables. Pearson Correlation Analysis was applied to reveal the relationship between scale scores. As a result of the research findings, it was determined that there were statistically significant differences (p<.05) between growth fear, adult separation anxiety and defense mechanisms. Participants with high separation anxiety were also found to have high immature and neurotic defenses. At the same time, participants with high separation anxiety have high levels of fear of growth. There were positive and significant relationships between immature defenses, fear of growth and social emotional loneliness variables. Another finding obtained from the study is that there is a positive relationship between social emotional loneliness and neurotic defenses and separation anxiety variables. Statistically significant differences were also found between sociodemographic variables. It is thought that this study can contribute to researchers working in the relevant field, including psychotherapeutic interventions to be developed in the clinical field.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zeynep GÜMÜŞ DEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Asya Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asya/issue/72908/1128484
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2477026
