Makale Başlığı: A Phenomenological Study on the Meaning of Being A School Administrator During the Covid-19 Pandemic Process
Özet: The main purpose of this research is to examine how school administrators perceive and make sense of their duties in the COVID-19 outbreak. The participant group of the research, which was conducted with a phenomenological research design, is 10 school administrators working in public schools. Research data were collected using semi-structured interview technique consisting of open-ended questions. Depending on the answers given by the participants in the interview, probe questions were also asked. In the phenomenological study, it is aimed to reach the essence and structure of the experiences of the participants regarding the research subject examined. For this reason, in order to reveal the essence and structure of the participants' experiences of being a school administrator, a four-stage process was followed in the analysis of the data: "bracketing", "phenomenological reduction", "imaginary variation" and "synthesis of meaning and essence". As a result of the analysis of the data, it was determined that six interrelated components constitute the structure and essence of the phenomenon of being a school administrator during the COVID-19 pandemic. These components or essences that make up the structure of the experience; (1) Uncertainty: Inability to see ahead with the effect of the unknown caused by the pandemic process, (2) Increase in Workload, (3) Feeling of weariness and fatigue, (4) Loss of motivation and decrease in work determination, (5) Increase in Technology Use and experiences, (6) Conscientious Responsibility. It has been determined that school administrators have received letters from their superiors according to the course of the pandemic and act accordingly, but they have a perception of uncertainty due to the unpredictability of the course of the pandemic. They stated that the managers, whose workload and intensity increased with the distance education process, experienced weariness and fatigue due to this intensity and uncertainty, and that they lost motivation immediately after the fatigue. On the other hand, it was determined that the administrators, who stated that they gained new experiences in technology by actively participating in the distance education process, felt themselves under a conscientious responsibility to provide their students with the necessary materials and opportunities for the online education process.
Yazar isimleri: ['Metehan AVCI', 'Veysi AKTAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Anadolu Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aujef/issue/73090/1054600
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2179666
