Makale Başlığı: Bibliometric Profile of Postgraduate Theses in the Field of Algebra Learning in Turkey (2011-2021)
Özet: The aim of this study is to determine the bibliometric profiles of postgraduate theses in the field of algebra learning in Turkey between the years 2011-2021. In this direction, master's and doctoral theses related to the field of algebra learning, which were granted access to the National Thesis Center database of the Council of Higher Education, were examined. Bibliometric analysis was used in the examination of the documents in the study, which was carried out depending on the qualitative understanding. In this context, 94 master's and 20 doctoral theses accessed from Yöktez database formed the data group of the study. The theses were analyzed according to the parameters of the year and type of publication, writing language, gender of the researcher, universities, title of supervisor, purpose, feature measured, sub-learning area, approach and explanation, sample level, sample selection, data collection tool and data analysis explanation. According to the findings, the most theses were published in 2019 and the least in 2014. While the rate of female researchers is higher in the studies, the most theses were done in Atatürk, Gazi and Anadolu universities. In theses, it was determined that a method, model, approach, application or software effectiveness was tested and success tests were used more. More work has been done with the algebraic expressions sub-domain and quantitative approaches have been preferred more. It mostly worked with middle school students, purposeful sampling method was used, tests were used as data collection tool, and quantitative descriptive analyzes were used more in data analysis.
Yazar isimleri: ['Deniz KAYA', 'Cenk KEŞAN']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Batı Anadolu Eğitim Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/baebd/issue/70550/1093156
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2331663
