Makale Başlığı: In this study, the effect of changes in the climate on the hydrological cycle and water supply in the areas where drought continues for a long time during the year, spatial and temporal variations of evapotranspiration values were revealed by using the monthly minimum temperature, maximum temperature, total precipitation, average wind speed, the sunshine duration, average relative humidity, and radiation intensity data, 8 stations in the province of Şanlıurfa (Şanlıurfa, Akçakale, Birecik, Bozova, Ceylanpınar, Hilvan, Siverek, and Viranşehir) were examined by the period 1980-2020. CROPWAT software developed by FAO was used to calculate FAO56-Penman-Monteith reference evapotranspiration (ETo) values. ArcGIS software was used to create maps showing the spatial and temporal variation of the obtained ETo values. Statistically strong positive increases were observed in the trend of ETo values, especially in the southern stations where agricultural activity is intense. In addition, with the Aridity Index drought calculation method, it has been revealed that semi-arid conditions are dominant in the field. It is essential to know the ETo values in determining the water needed to be used in agricultural activities in Şanlıurfa, one of the GAP’s important pillars. For this reason, it would be beneficial to consider the Penman-Monteith method proposed by the FAO in planning studies. The fact that the water demand changes from crop to crop and depending on the vegetation period of each crop makes it necessary to calculate the ETo values specifically according to the crops.
Özet: In this study, the effect of changes in the climate on the hydrological cycle and water supplyin the areas where drought continues for a long time during the year, spatial and temporalvariations of evapotranspiration values were revealed by using the monthly minimum temperature,maximum temperature, total precipitation, average wind speed, the sunshine duration,average relative humidity, and radiation intensity data, 8 stations in the province of Şanlıurfa(Şanlıurfa, Akçakale, Birecik, Bozova, Ceylanpınar, Hilvan, Siverek, and Viranşehir) were examinedby the period 1980-2020. CROPWAT software developed by FAO was used to calculateFAO56-Penman-Monteith reference evapotranspiration (ETo) values. ArcGIS software wasused to create maps showing the spatial and temporal variation of the obtained ETo values.Statistically strong positive increases were observed in the trend of ETo values, especially inthe southern stations where agricultural activity is intense. In addition, with the Aridity Indexdrought calculation method, it has been revealed that semi-arid conditions are dominant inthe field. It is essential to know the ETo values in determining the water needed to be usedin agricultural activities in Şanlıurfa, one of the GAP’s important pillars. For this reason, itwould be beneficial to consider the Penman-Monteith method proposed by the FAO in planningstudies. The fact that the water demand changes from crop to crop and depending onthe vegetation period of each crop makes it necessary to calculate the ETo values specificallyaccording to the crops.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gülşen KUM']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Coğrafya Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tcd/issue/69891/1116059
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2425367
