Makale Başlığı: Technical efficiency analysis of melon (Coloncynthis citrullus l) production among smallscale farmers in federal capital territory, Nigeria
Özet: This study evaluated technical analysis of melon production in Federal Capital Territory, Nigeria. The specific objectives were to: Primary data were used for this study. Multi-stage sampling technique was adopted and used for the study. Data were obtained using structured questionnaire. The questionnaire was administered to two hundred and sixteen (216) smallholder melon farmers in the study area. Data were analyzed using descriptive statistics, farm budgeting technique and Stochastic frontier production function. The results showed that majority (80.65%) of the sampled smallholder melon farmers had mean age of 44 years. Majority (76.9%) were married, (44.9%) had no formal education. The average member per each household was 5 persons in the study area. The average years of experience in melon production by the smallholder farmers was 7.4years. The average farm size cultivated by melon farmers was 2.15ha. The results also showed that, the gross margin computed was N55, 615.50 and the net farm income was computed to be N37, 888.81. The results of the financial analysis showed that the gross margin ratio was 0.378 while the operating ratio computed was 1.324 and the rate of return on investment was 0.415, which indicated that melon production was profitable in the study area. The results of the stochastic frontier of the production function revealed that the statistically significant factors influencing the total output of melon were; seed input (P<0.01), family labour (P<0.01), and Chemical input (P<0.01). The findings of this study also revealed that, the average technical efficiency score level of the smallholder melon farmers was 50% and the factors influencing technical inefficiency were age of the farmer (P<0.10) and farming experience (P<0.05). The Smallholder melon farmers were faced with the following constraints in melon production: unavailability of improved seed varieties, lack of extension agent, inadequate capital, inadequate transportation and bad roads. The study recommended that farmers should be encouraged to engage in melon production, activities should also be introduced to farmers in order to earn income from non-farm business enterprise. Inputs like improved seeds, and chemicals, should be made available by governments and non-governmental organizations to melon farmers at subsidized rate to increase profit among melon farmers in the study area. Extension agents should teach farmers and provide necessary supports that can boost melon production. Credit facilities should also be made available to farmers at affordable interest rate. Farmers should be encouraged to join farm organizations for easy accessibility of credit and other farm inputs. Melon farmers should be encouraged by making a provision of capital to enhance their productivity.  Key words: Melon, Production, Technical Efficiency, Profitability, Nigeria
Yazar isimleri: ['Elizabeth EBUKİBA', 'Luka ANTHONY', 'Glory AKPEJİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Agriculture Forestry and Life Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijafls/issue/70069/1083965
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2294466
