Makale Başlığı: Metaphorical Perceptions of Science and Art Center Teachers Distance Education Process
Özet: The aim of this study is to determine the perceptions of teachers working at the Science and Art Center (BİLSEM) perceptions on ‘distance education’ via metaphors. For this reason, the present study was carried out with the phenomenology method. Judgmental sampling is a non-probability sampling technique in which the sample members are chosen only on the basis of the researcher’s knowledge and judgment, so it is prefered to use in this study's sample. The study was conducted in the 2020-2021 academic year with the participation of teachers from different science and art center in Turkey. So, the study group of the research consists of ninety-seven (F=62, M=35, Total= 97) teachers from different branches working in various Science and Art Centers. To collect the data and In order to determine teacher perceptions the teachers of SAC were asked to complete this sentence: ‘Distance education is like......because....’. Also, demographic information form developed by the researcher was used. Data was analysed by using content analysis technique one of the qualitative data analysis methods. In addition, metaphors written by teachers of SAC about distance education; branch, professional seniority, gender, age and education level etc. it was investigated whether it differentiates according to the variables. The teachers of SAC participating in this study produced 68 metaphors. There are four categories on metaphors for this study. Research results showing that metaphors produced by teachers may also be related to their thinking styles are discussed. On the other hand, it has been determined that the metaphors produced by teachers are different and the results are discussed in the light of the inferences.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zehra TOPAL ALTINDIS']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Academic Research Review
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tarr/issue/72766/1103831
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2375788
