Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of risk factors and outcomes associated with mortality after hip fracture surgery in eldery patients
Özet: Objective: In this retrospective study, it was aimed to compare mortality related risk factors and outcomes in patients who underwent proximal femoral nail and partial hip prosthesis for hip fracture.Material and Method: In our study, a total of 618 patient files who underwent hip fracture operations, including partial hip replacement (n=350) and proximal femoral nail (n=268) were retrospectively analyzed. Age, gender, fracture side, cause, type of fracture, type of operation, blood transfusion, hospital stay, anesthesia type and one-year survival times of the patients were examined.Results: Gender, age, side, mechanism, anesthesia, comorbid diseases, cause of mortality, one-year mortality and survival time differences between patient groups were not statistically significant (p>0.05). However, fracture type, blood transfusion and hospital stay differences between groups were statistically significant (p<0.05). According to the correlation analysis results, there was a statistically significant relationship between the type of operation and the type of fracture, blood transfusion and hospital stay (p<0.05). The difference between level of fracture type and blood transfusion level was statistically significant (p<0.05). The difference in length of hospital stay was not significant at the multivariate level (p> 0.05). The mean survival time of the hip prosthesis group (144.97±9.83) was greater than the survival time of the proximal femoral nail group (129.72±12.31), but this difference was not statistically significant (p> 0.05).Conclusion: According to the results of the research, both partial hip replacement and proximal femoral nail methods have similar results and mortality level. Therefore, methods including less invasive procedures should be preferred for the benefit of the patient in the selection of methods in hip fracture treatment.
Yazar isimleri: ['Deniz İPEK', 'Murat ÇALBIYIK', 'Tuba DENİZCİ', 'Taner ALIÇ', 'Abdulrahim DÜNDAR', 'Sinan ZEHİR']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Health Sciences and Medicine
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jhsm/issue/73169/1167524
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2618086
