Makale Başlığı: Education Theme in the Work “spring Awakening” of Frank Wedekind
Özet: Frank Wedekind (1864-1918) is one of the most famous writers and theater figures of the German Empire, who profoundly influenced the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century with his different personality and colorful thoughts, revealing the extremes, quirks and adventurous aspects of life. Because of his extremist tendencies, he is considered a scandalous artist by some of his contemporaries as well as the German Empire. Wedekind, who is extremely open to interpretation and has a versatile artist personality, is considered among the pioneers of the period due to the innovations he brought to the theater and the modern ideas he advocated. He criticizes society in general in his works. In his work "Spring Awakening", for the first time, he writes about a tragedy that occurs from the problems of children. The essence of this tragedy is the unconscious education of children as a result of wrong education, the backward norms of the school system, the petty world of the bourgeois class that is not open to innovations, and particularly the sexuality that has been turned into taboo. In this work, Wedekind expresses the way of education and child-rearing, which he disliked and criticized constantly, the indestructible taboos of the period, that he remained an old society as a society and that no steps were taken towards enlightenment. To this end, he tries to show how the social norms of his time appear from the outside in the conversations between teenagers and in the interaction between parents and children. Using social criticism skillfully, Wedekind reflects the social discourse of the period on the stage through the dominant education understanding both in the family and in the school. Thus, it makes this discourse transparent, looks at it from an outside perspective, and makes its dark sides visible. At the point of making inferences, it clearly reveals the tragic consequences of not obeying social rules and expectations through young characters. These young people suffer seriously from the attitudes and behaviors of their parents, who are constantly waiting for success and who want to raise themselves within the framework of bourgeois morality, as well as from the attitudes of the educators in the school and the traditional methods they apply in terms of education. These young people, who cannot bear the social pressures under the name of education, become victims of this wheel created by their families, schools and teachers, knowingly or unknowingly. The aim of our study is to shed light on this work, within the framework of these issues, at the end of the 19th century (Fin de siècle) and the beginning of the 20th century.
Yazar isimleri: ['Recep BODUR', 'Fatma ÖZTÜRK DAĞABAKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: KARE
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kare/issue/73727/1052382
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2171007
