Makale Başlığı: Retrospective evaluation for pediatric patients presenting with transient loss of consciousness complaint
Özet: Objective: With this study was aimed to evaluate for pediatric patients presenting with transient loss of consciousness complaint. To document according to etiology, patients were investigated about history, physical examination, diagnostic tests and medications. Method: Children admitted to Suleyman Demirel University Faculty of Medicine with transient loss of consciousness complaint were included between August 2017 and February 2020. History of the cases, physical examination findings, the results of biochemical test-electrocardiogram (ECG) -transthoracic echocardiography- 24 hours rhythm Holter ECG monitorization-neuroimaging-electroencephalography have been recorded, after that analyzed and evaluated them retrospectively. Results: A total of 160 children with transient loss of consciousness were constituted 110 (68.8%) girls, 50 (31.2%) boys. The mean age was 11.4 (±4.8) years. The mean number of transient loss of consciousness attacks of the cases was 1.6 (± 1.2). Thirty-three percent of our total episodes were recurrent transient loss of consciousness episodes. With the further investigations in this study were found the most relevant etiology as neurocardiogenic syncope (51 patients, 31.9%), secondly epileptic seizures/febrile/afebrile convulsions (41 patients, 25.6%), thirdly psychogenic syncope (28 patients, 17.5 %). The other causes were defined that situational, breath-holding spells, orthostatic hypotension, migraine/ cerebrovascular event, cardiogenic syncope, benign paroxysmal positional vertigo. In this study were analyzed and evaluated biochemical tests, ECG, echocardiography, 24 hours rhythm Holter ECG, electroencephalography, brain magnetic resonance imaging. Conclusion: A detailed history, physical examination and ECG could be performed all patients presenting with transient loss of consciousness in children. The other further investigations would useful if definitive diagnosis is unknown via initial assessments.
Yazar isimleri: ['İpek UYSAL', 'Mahmut KESKİN']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Mustafa Kemal Üniversitesi Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mkutfd/issue/73508/992966
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1964490
