Makale Başlığı: PREPARATION AND CHARACTERIZATION OF COMBINED SALICYLIC ACID AND POVIDONE-IODINE CONTAINING NANOEMULGELS: A PRELIMINARY STUDY
Özet: Objective: The aim of this preliminary study is to prepare and characterize combined salicylic acid and povidone-iodine-containing nanoemulgels for use in disease models such as wounds and burns in the future.        Material and Method: Within the scope of the study, first of all, analytical method validation of salicylic acid was performed. Then, oil solubility studies were carried out and nanoemulsions and nanoemulgels were prepared. Morphology, zetasizer analysis, type and pH determination, FTIR analysis, spreadability, and in vitro release studies were performed to determine the characterization of the formulations.         Result and Discussion: Nanoemulsions and nanoemulgels have been prepared successfully. Nanoemulsions with spherical droplet structure and outer phase water were obtained, and their morphology and zeta sizer results were compatible. In the 1-month stability study, only the F1 formulation did not decompose. There was not much change in pH after holding. At the end of the FTIR analysis, it was seen that there was no interaction between the items. In the release study performed with pH 5.5 phosphate buffer, approximately 40% of the release occurred after 8 hours. This study is a preliminary study, and formulations with long-term stability and release rate can be developed by conducting more detailed studies in the future. Salicylic acid and povidone-iodine were used in combination for the first time. This combination can be translated into formulations that may be beneficial for skin diseases in the future. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Rukiye SEVİNÇ ÖZAKAR', 'Şeyma ASAN', 'Azra Elisa ÖZKAN', 'Emrah ÖZAKAR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Ankara Üniversitesi Eczacılık Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jfpanu/issue/72856/1137486
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2513831
