Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of Social Media Disorder and Loneliness Levels of Students in the First 3 Years of the Faculty of Medicine
Özet: This study was conducted to determine the levels of social media use disorder among the first, second and third grade students of the medical faculty and evaluate some variables that are thought to be related and to determine the levels of loneliness.The study is a cross-sectional study conducted on the first, second and third year students of Eskişehir Osmangazi University Faculty of Medicine in the 2018-2019 academic year. In this study, the minimum number of students to be reached was determined as at least 384 people, when the frequency of social media use was 50%, the margin of error was 5%, and the confidence level was 95%. The study group was formed by 422 internet users. A questionnaire including some sociodemographic characteristics of students, variables thought to be associated with social media use disorder, Social Media Use Disorder Scale and UCLA Loneliness Scale Short Form were used to collect data. Mann Whitney U test, Kruskal Wallis analysis, Spearman correlation analysis and multiple linear regression analysis were used for analysis.The mean age of the students participating in the study was 19.78±1.33 and 46.4% were female students. The scores of the students on the Social Media Use Disorder Scale range from 0 to 63, with a mean score of 12.19±10.36 (median: 9.0 points). The level of social media use disorder was found to be higher in the students whose mother's education level was high school or below and whose academic grade average was lower than 70. It was determined that there was a weak positive correlation between the scores obtained from the SMKBÖ and the UCLA Loneliness Scale Short Form. Mother’s education level, academic grade point average, time spent on social media in a day and loneliness level were determined as factors affecting the level of social media use disorder. It was concluded that further studies are needed to examine the effects of such technology addictions on mental health among university students.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hatice AYGAR', 'Alaettin ÜNSAL', 'Didem ARSLANTAS', 'Beyhan DURAK ARAS', 'Burcu IŞIKTEKİN ATALAY', 'Ali KILINÇ', 'Cüneyt ÇAM', 'Sevil AKBULUT ZENCİRCİ', 'Selim ADALI', 'Ayşe Özge AKMAN', 'Mohammad Haroun OMARI', 'Öykü Nur ÖZDÖNGÜL', 'Ayşe PÜSKÜLLÜ', 'Özge SALKIM', 'Melek Nur ŞERBETCİ', 'Aykut YALÇIN', 'Ahmet Emre YILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 2 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Tıp Öğrencileri Araştırma Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/toad/issue/73208/873624
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1553109
