Makale Başlığı: Plant Based Diets in Climate Supported Nutrition and Effects on Health
Özet: The global climate crisis, which is affected more deeply every day, has become a major problem worldwide by affecting ecosystems and human life with its results. While the most concrete beginning of the climate crisis is seen as the industrial revolution, the mechanization accompanying the population increase contributes to this problem exponentially. The food system has one of the biggest shares in the climate crisis, which is an intersectoral problem. The food system, which has negative environmental effects, is one of the most important sectors in the world, especially in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, water requirement and land use. The food chains that support diets are linked to environmental issues. While providing an adequate and balanced diet to the growing world population, it is a mandatory requirement to consider the environmental damage of diets in order not to exceed the load capacity of the environment. Developments in diet and consumption, for example, the preference of animal foods such as meat, eggs and milk over vegetable-based diets increases carbon emissions many times over. If protein intake is met from legumes and grains instead of the livestock sector, which causes methane gas emissions as a result of its production and processing, it creates an average of 5 billion tons of difference in greenhouse gas emissions. Alternative plant-based diet patterns were created by evaluating food consumption and sustainability. Plant-based dietary patterns are bioactive ingredient that optimizes the body and has been associated with positive health effects due to its macro and micronutrient content. Previous studies have shown that plant-based diets are an effective form of drug-free treatment for health problems such as glycemic control, blood lipid level control, diabetes, hypertension, some types of cancer, Crohn's disease and heart disease. In this review study, the positive effects of plant-based diets on environmental health as well as human health were examined by considering the relationship between human footprint and dietary choices.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşe GÜNEŞ BAYIR', 'Büşra KIYAK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Akademik Et ve Süt Kurumu Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aeskd/issue/72720/1073799
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2254439
