Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of 7th Grade Mathematics Curriculum According to Teachers' Opinions
Özet: The aim of this research is to evaluate the 7th grade mathematics curriculum based on the opinions of mathematics teachers. The research was designed in the descriptive survey model, one of the qualitative research methods. The study was attended by 11 maths teachers who taught 7 classes of mathematics. Research data were obtained by semi - structured interview technique. With the interview form consisting of seven questions, it consists of questions to reveal the opinions of teachers about the physical, social and psychological suitability of the educational status element of the 7th grade mathematics program. The data obtained within the scope of the study were analyzed by content analysis method. In this context, similar data in line with the research questions were brought together by coding within the framework of certain concepts and themes. Afterwards, the findings were arranged and interpreted in a way that the reader could understand. As a result of the study, it was seen that the teachers thought that the physical conditions were not suitable for the physical arrangement of the educational environment and were insufficient in terms of materials. From the findings of the study, it was understood that the individual differences, developmental characteristics, readiness levels and interests of the students were taken into consideration regarding the regulation of the psychological dimension of the educational environment. In addition, it is thought that positive contributions can be made to the socialization of students by giving importance to group work and peer support regarding the social dimension of the educational environment, but the applied mathematics curriculum does not provide a suitable environment for the socialization of students.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa DEMİR', 'Ahmet ÇELİK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Kahramanmaraş Sütçü İmam Üniversitesi Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ksued/issue/70839/1019790
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2066291
