Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of Guidance Services in terms of Student Experiences in the Distance Education Period
Özet: Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, emergency distance education has been started in our country. Accordingly, guidance and psychological counseling services have also been moved to online environments. Guidance services have an important place in terms of the personal, professional, and psychological development of students. Therefore, the aim of this research is to reveal the guidance and psychological counseling service experiences of senior high school students in distance education. In the light of the findings to be obtained as a result of the research, it is aimed to reveal the deficiencies and strengths of guidance services in distance education and to present suggestions in this direction. In this research carried out within the scope of the TÜBİTAK 2209-A program, a phenomenology pattern, one of the qualitative research methods, was used. The study group of the research was from Adana province Seyhan and Saimbeyli districts. consists of 10 people selected according to the criteria determined by the researchers. While determining the participants, the criterion sampling method, one of the purposive sampling methods, was used. The semi-structured interview form was prepared by the researchers. Content analysis was applied to the obtained data. According to the results of the research, it was seen that the students who benefited from the guidance services during the distance education period experienced problems and were not satisfied with this system. The students generally experienced problems such as internet problems, not being able to reach the person responsible for the course, and limited time. It is thought that it will shed light on and be a pioneer for future research. Based on the findings obtained from the research, it is recommended to evaluate the guidance services offered in online environments in terms of student opinions. Thus, the developmental aspects and difficulties of guidance services will be revealed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Melek AKYAY', 'Beyza Sultan YILDIZHAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Necmettin Erbakan Üniversitesi Ereğli Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/neueefd/issue/70889/1118036
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2433898
