Makale Başlığı: REFLECTION OF THE PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT ON CRIME: THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN URBAN SPACE AND JUVENILE DELINQUENCY
Özet: This study examines the phenomenon of juvenile delinquency in relation to urbanization and urban space. The purpose of this study is to explain the sociological dimension of the relationship between urban space and juvenile delinquency. In the study, the phenomena of urbanization and becoming urbanized are examined based on the concept of the city, and the concept of juvenile delinquency is discussed. Furthermore, the aspects of the urbanization process that lead to juvenile delinquency are revealed. In this context, the effects of migration, slums, and poverty on juvenile delinquency are discussed. The research is theoretically based on the social disorder theory. Migration, people from different cultures and ethnic characteristics, the inadequacy of socio-economic status, inability to provide urban interaction, and ineffective social control result in social disorder, which in turn leads to juvenile delinquency. In the study, it is revealed that being exposed to a culture of crime leads children to crime as a result of the reflection of space on crime, and juvenile delinquency is reconstructed through space. This research is considered important in terms of underlining how urban space affects juvenile delinquency. In order to tackle juvenile delinquency, it is suggested to control immigration, improve slums and depression areas, provide income and employment support to poor households, prevent children from working and engaging in illegal activities and direct them to education, rehabilitate urban spaces and transform them into safe places, increase control mechanisms in hot spots where the crime rate is high, and fight against the use and sale of drugs.
Yazar isimleri: ['Radiye Canan BAĞIŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/deusosbil/issue/72824/1034988
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2125311
