Makale Başlığı: Creating Nazi Germany: The Paris Peace Conference, Treaty of Versailles, And Weimar Germany
Özet: Purpose: The main aim of this study is to examine the role and relationship of the Paris Peace Conference and the Versailles Agreement which was designed Nazi power in Weimar Germany.Design/Methodology: This study examines the developments in German territory after the First World War within the scope of its global impact. In this respect, this study is a single case study. The main method here is case-oriented with a historical example. At the same time, this paper offers a descriptive analysis to understand the developments in the international arena.Findings: At the Paris Peace Conference, the USA, France, and England considered Germany as the "other" of Europe. While the “living space (lebensraum) of the “Other” was designed by the Treaty of Versailles, the conditions of the treaty were applied to the established puppet regime. Despite this issue, the process took for a new balance in Europe and prepared the power of the fascist government.Limitations: While investigating the process leading to the Nazi power in Germany, a limitation was made in the context of the actor by considering the approaches of the USA, England, and France. The discussion at the Paris Peace Conference on the issues concerning Germany and the main conditions of the Treaty of Versailles created another limitation in revealing the article’s purpose.Originality/Value: Contrary to previous European harmonies, this time an actor from outside the European Continent, namely the USA, is against the European powers of the realist tradition with the idealist instruments. The perceived differences in the system between the realist and idealist traditions have turned into an intellectual conflict. While this conflict manifested itself through the issues discussed at the Paris Peace Conference and the articles of the Versailles Treaty, the actors reluctantly created the first fascist administration of nation-states in Europe. The originality of the study is the examination of how the conflict between these two understandings faced in the first years of the discipline of international relations built Nazi Germany.
Yazar isimleri: ['Merve Suna ÖZEL ÖZCAN', 'Lütfi TUTUŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Akademik Araştırmalar ve Çalışmalar Dergisi (AKAD)
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kilisiibfakademik/issue/73550/1140438
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2524850
