Makale Başlığı: Investigation of the Effects of Electrical Muscle Stimulation (EMS) and Traditional Training on Strength Gain and Anthropometric Properties in Sedentary Women
Özet: The aim of this study was to examine the effects of Electrical Muscle Stimulation (EMS) training and traditional fitness training practices on anthropometric and strength values on sedentary women. 20 sedentary women (age 25.40 ± 1.10) living in Osmaniye province participated in the study voluntarily. Participants were divided into two groups as EMS and fitness training group. The normality distribution of the data was examined with Shapiro-Wilk test. Since the data showed a normal distribution, the dependent groups T test was used for the pre-test and post-test anthropometric and strength comparisons of the trainings applied for 6 weeks. There was no statistically significant difference between the pretest-posttest values of the EMS and fitness groups according to the anthropometric variables (body weight, body mass index, fat percentage values and lean body mass) (p>0.05). In circumference measurements, no statistically significant difference was found in the pre-test and post-test values of the EMS training group (p>0.05). While there was a significant difference in biceps and biceps circumference measurements in the fitness training group, there was no significant difference in the abdominal, hip and chest circumferences as in the EMS group. As a result of the study, significant differences were found in the strength pretest-posttest values of the EMS and Fitness groups. As a result, strength gain was achieved in sedentary women as a result of EMS training and traditional fitness training. Based on this finding, new technology EMS training, which is easy to apply and in a short time, with less risk of injury, is recommended in addition to traditional fitness training.
Yazar isimleri: ['Uğur ÖKTEM', 'Manolya AKIN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: CBÜ Beden Eğitimi ve Spor Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cbubesbd/issue/70079/1114526
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2419107
