Makale Başlığı: ENERGY TRANSITION AS A SOCIO-TECHNICAL CHANGE PROCESS INDUCED BY CLIMATE CHANGE
Özet: Greenhouse gas emissions, that cause global warming and climate change, have been increasing since mid-19th century. To address this problem, thus, in 1988, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change was established in order to encourage national efforts as well as international cooperation. The Paris Agreement furthermore, aimed to keep the increase of global warming below 1.5 degrees. The energy resources and uses is the main area of such emissions reductions policies, which could only be achieved through Energy Transition. The focus of the discussion in this area, however, have been heavily focused only on CO2 and consequently, policies have been developed mainly to reduce its emissions, despite the fact that there are other greenhouse gases. The same is also true in the area of electricity generation. Transitioning away from fossil fuels to renewables is seen as a panacea, “the single solution”, despite its intermittency and grid connection problems. Additionally, although a fossil fuel with heavy methane content, gas is presented (so-called a bridge fuel). The aim of this paper is to draw attention to the impact of the other potent emissions, contribute to the debate in the right policy, the other sizable sectors other than electricity generation, the nature of the socio-economic factors and the neglected role of local governments and civic initiatives in developing and implementing successful energy transition. Only with such a socio-technical transition perspective and recognizing the relevance and the need of just and equitable energy and climate policies, contribution of a wider part of the economy as well as a broader participation of local communities (from bottom-up via local climate action) can be secured in mitigation of and adaptation to climate change policies globally.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sırrı UYANIK']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Mart 2022
Dergi ismi: Uygulamalı Ekonomi ve Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jeess/issue/69057/1081232
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2283438
