Makale Başlığı: An Investigation into the Home Environments of 10-14 Age Group Children in the Cognitive Maps
Özet: Nowadays, urbanization is increasing and children’s relationship with their living environmentis becoming more and more important. This study aims to examine the urbanimagery elements in children’s minds concerning the urban space in which they live andto show how children reflect spatial information about their home and home environmentin their cognitive maps. A field study was conducted with children (n=387) in the Kadıkoyneighborhood of Istanbul during the fall semester of the 2021-2022 academic year. Thestudy group was selected using stratified random sampling. Questionnaires and cognitivemaps were created with children aged 10-14 years. IBM SPSS 25.0 statistical programwas used to analyze the research data. The study used descriptive data analysis to determinefrequencies and percentages. The results of the study are divided into two categories.The first consists of drawing an image map of the real environment and determining theimage elements, and the second consists of spatially analyzing the content of the cognitivemaps drawn by the children. Spatial content analysis of cognitive maps; i) explanation ofhome environment in children’s cognitive maps following Lynch’s methodology (path andlandmarks); ii) Matthews’ categories for classifying children’s drawn cognitive maps. The research findings show that i) paths are drawn more frequently as landmarks in children’scognitive maps, but landmarks are drawn in more detail and defined in writing. The secondfinding of the study is ii) that the reflection rate of children’s functional cognitive mapdrawings (elements of the built environment) from the immediate environment of theirhome is quite high. This study of children’s city images and cognitive mapping abilities islikely to give researchers in fields including city planning, architecture, educational sciences,cognitive psychology, and child psychology a new perspective.
Yazar isimleri: ['Emine Banu BURKUT', 'Emine KÖSEOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: FSM İlmi Araştırmalar İnsan ve Toplum Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/fsmia/issue/70588/1136517
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2510137
