Makale Başlığı: Use of Generalized Additive Models in Animal Science
Özet: Regression analysis is one of the most frequently used statistical methods in the field of animal science, as it is in many branches of science. However, it is not possible to provide linear regression assumptions for many biological studies. It is known that especially in cases where discrete data should be used as explanatory variables, the models obtained using linear regression can produce statistically incorrect results. For such cases, it is recommended to use non-parametric or semi-parametric methods instead of linear regression. In this study, it is aimed to introduce the generalized additive models proposed in the presence of discrete explanatory variables, using a dataset obtained from the field of animal science (n=166). While lactation milk yield was used as the outcome variable, lactation period and maternal age taken from dairy goat were used as explanatory variables. It was determined that the variables of lactation milk yield, lactation period and maternal age did not show normal distribution. It was determined that the obtained linear regression model was statistically significant (P<0.001), the Mean Square Error (MSE) was 5826.039 and the coefficient of determination (R2) was 0.16. It has been interpreted that the significance of the model, despite a low coefficient of determination, may depend on the sample size. For the generalized additive model obtained, it was determined that the maternal age variable had a more successful smoothing value than the lactation period variable. Root Mean Square Error (RMSE), Relative Root Mean Square Error (rRMSE) and mean absolute deviation (MAD) values were calculated to compare linear regression and generalized additive models. According to the findings obtained, it was understood that the estimation success of the linear regression analysis was higher. However, it was known that although there was no multicollinearity problem between the explanatory variables (VIF=1.000) and the deviations had a normal distribution (P>0.05), the variables were not normally distributed. In this case, it can be said to recommend to use of generalized additive models. As a result, it has been determined that when it is necessary to create a model with discrete variables in animal science studies, using generalized additive models instead of linear models can be recommended as it will increase the reliability of the model to be obtained.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hasan ÖNDER']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Black Sea Journal of Engineering and Science
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bsengineering/issue/68458/1075808
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2262413
