Makale Başlığı: OBSERVATIONS ON THE RENOVATION OF THE SABUNCUOĞLU ŞEREFEDDIN DARÜŞŞİFA (HOSPITAL)
Özet: Amasya, once the capital city of Sultan Mesud, remained under Mongol rule between 1243-1341; this period is called the Ilkhanid period. Sabuncuoğlu Şerefeddin Hospital (Darüşşifa) was also built during this period by Anber bin Abdullah, who was the slave of İlduş Hatun, the wife of Ilkhanid ruler Sultan Olcaytu Mehmed Han.The building, which has classical hospital planning, has been researched by different researchers with its architectural and stylistic features; however, no work has been done on the renovation of the building. The idea of keeping the historical buildings revitalization/preserved by using them was put into practice in 2005 in our country with the "Law on Conservation by Renovation and Use by Revitalization of the Deteriorated Historical and Cultural Immovable Property ". The functioning of historical buildings as museums was only possible when the Hagia Eirene Church was converted into a museum in 1846 during the Ottoman period. In this study, the functioning of Sabuncuoğlu Şerefeddin Hospital (Darüşşifa) as a museum was observed. Before starting the study, literature research was conducted, on-site observations were made by going to the area, photographs were taken, and information was obtained from the building users. The sustainability of the building with its new function has been examined, and the pros and cons of the new function have been determined both for the building and the city.As a result of the examinations and research on the functioning of the building as a museum, it has been determined that the building is suitable for its sustainability and that its new function adds economic and symbolic value to the city. Arrangements should be made near the building, located in a place with pedestrian and vehicle traffic.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fazilet KOÇYİĞİT']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Amasya Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asobid/issue/72820/1151734
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2567909
