Makale Başlığı: Teacher’s Opinions On The Project of ‘A Book Came Out From My Penny Bank’ and  The Effect of Children On Book Selection Analysis
Özet: Considering the characteristics of the pre-school period, ın the process starting with birth, stimulating environment, play and educational materials, especially the stories appropriate to the level of the child, it is important for to be a successful and happy adult. This study initiated by Bahçelievler Preschool of Erzincan National Education Directorate as an e-twinning project. The purpose of this research is to examine of teacher's opinions on the project of "A book came out from my penny bank" and the effect of children on book selection. For this purpose, interviews were made with 10 preschool teachers who formed the project and took an active role in the process. Semi-configured interview technique was used to collect data. The study group consisted of 10 teachers working in 2017-2018 Bahçelievler preschool and participating in the project.According to the results of the study, the participants stated that the children did not have much interest in books before the project. They stated that the project increased the love of books in children and children had the opportunity to choose the book they wanted with their own money. In addition, 50% of parents supported this project, and nearly 50% of parents did not support the project because according to them this project is a financial burden. Children who were not supported by their parents to get the books that they wanted were unhappy because they could not have a book. Teachers who want the project to continue stated that the project developed positive behaviors such as responsibility and sparing other than literacy in children. It is seen that children generally choose books about nature, love of animals, illustrated stories and books about values and science. Among the books covered within the scope of the project, it is seen that the books in these themes are more prominent and visual
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ekim 2018
Dergi ismi: Annals of Health Sciences Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/annhealthscires/issue/65349/1006836
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2017139
