Makale Başlığı: Opinions of Secondary Education Students Participated in TÜBİTAK 4006 Science Fairs on These Fairs
Özet: Science Fairs, which have become more and more widespread since the year they were organized, attract more and more attention. However, it is considered worth researching scientifically to determine the effects and results of these fairs, to identify their effects, utilities and deficiencies. The opinions of the stakeholders who directly participated in the fairs are important in the conduct of these researches. Therefore, in this study, students' views on TÜBİTAK-4006 Science Fairs held in secondary education were investigated. The study was carried out with the case study method, one of the qualitative research designs. The study group consists of 16 students from four secondary education institutions supported by TÜBİTAK in the city center of Sivas in the 2018-2019 academic year. The data were collected using the semi-structured interview form prepared by the researchers and the interview technique. The data were analyzed by content analysis method. As a result of the research, it has been seen that science fairs have effects on the development of students' basic skills, contributing to their academic success, and gaining prestige to the school and also to development of the school. It has been understood that the participation and willingness of the students in these fairs is related to two main factors. The first is that the fairs offer different educational environments to the students and the other is that they will produce a product with the contributions of the students themselves. The shortcomings in the organization of the fairs were determined as the unwillingness of the teachers and their failure to carry out the counseling process well, the students not having enough information about the process and lack of time. In order for the fairs to be more efficient, opinions such as spreading this practice, encouraging teachers, training students about the organization of fairs, allocating sufficient time for preparation and arranging a suitable place have emerged. Suggestions were developed in accordance with these results.
Yazar isimleri: ['İhsan TOPCU']
Yayın Yılı: 19 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Sivas Cumhuriyet Üniversitesi Eğitim Bilimleri Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cebed/issue/73073/1081448
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2284189
