Makale Başlığı: Local and Oral History In Life Studies and Social Studies Lessons: Making Sense of History
Özet: In this study, the use of local and oral history in Life studies and Social studies lessons were examined according to primary class teacher’s views. The study was conducted with a case study, one of the qualitative research designs. The study group of the research consists of 32 classroom teachers working in public schools in Fatih, Bakırköy, and Florya districts of Istanbul. In the research, as data collection tool was used semi-structured interview,  and data analysis was counducted by content analysis. According to the results of the study, it was found that the classroom teachers’ thoughts the use of local and oral history in life studies and social studies lessons as the basis of the lessons. In addition, it was observed that most of the teachers perceived the concepts of local and oral history correctly. However, it revealed that very few classroom teachers have confusion in their oral and local history perceptions. According to the opinions of the classroom teachers about using the local and oral history method in the life studies and social studies lessons,it concluded that three of the teachers do not use the local history in the life studies and social studies lessons, and four of the teachers donot use the oral history. Also two classroom teachers thought that the oral history method was not suitable for the 3rd grade life studies course. According to the results of the research, it has been suggested that teachers who do not use the oral and local history methods in these lessons and who think that these teaching methods are not suitable for the life studies lesson can be supported by trainings on how to use the oral and local history studies in these lessons.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nur ÜTKÜR GÜLLÜHAN', 'Derya BEKİROĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: The Journal of International Lingual Social and Educational Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jilses/issue/71086/1062074
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2208865
