Makale Başlığı: Examinatıon of Music Teachers' Professional Value Levels According to Different Variables
Özet: This is a quantitative research in which the professional values of music teachers are examined accordig to different variables. Music teachers working in elementary schools are determined as the population. 373 people from the relevant population were reached. The data collection tool is a 5-point Likert-type ‘Teacher Professional Values Scale’ consisting of 4 sub-dimensions and 24 items used to assess teachers' perceptions of their professional values. Cronbachs' Alpha reliability analysis was used to assess the reliability levels. The data were collected on Internet in December 2019 and analyzed by statistical survey method. In accordance with the determined general goal, answers were sought to such questions such as 'What are the professional value levels of music teachers?' and ‘Do the professional value levels of the music teachers differ according to gender, age, education level, former year(s)/experience(s) in the profession, the school they work (private/state), the place of residence where they continue their profession?’. According to the findings of the study, the study group has professional values associated to the ‘respect for diversity' sub-dimension at the highest level and the 'openness to cooperation' sub-dimension at the lowest level. In terms of the value levels of the ‘opposition to violence’ sub-dimension: Female teachers and teachers working in private schools have the highest scores. In terms of value levels of the ‘individual and social responsibility' sub-dimension: Music teachers working in private schools have the highest; music teachers with professional seniority between 11-15 and 6-11 years got the lowest scores compared to teachers with other professional seniority. In terms of value levels of the 'openness to cooperation' sub-dimension: Female teachers and private school teachers have the highest; music teachers with professional seniority more than 26 years have higher scores than music teachers with professional seniority between 11-15 years; music teachers working in villages, towns and districts got lower scores than teachers working in metropolitan cities. In terms of total professional values, it is determined that female music teachers, music teachers working in private schools and music teachers working in metropolitan cities have the highest value levels.
Yazar isimleri: ['Aslı Deniz İSSİ', 'Bulent HALVAŞİ']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Art Time
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/at/issue/72788/1136952
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2511762
