Makale Başlığı: An Evaluation of the Life of the Messenger of Allah in Meccan Period in the Context of the Notions of Precaution (Tadbir) and Trust(Tawakkul)
Özet: For reach to success, it is important to make the necessary preparations within a disciplined plan. This is the case for all people. Even though Prophet Muhammad was supported and protected by God and His revelation, he acted in a planned and cautious manner before his deeds and did not allow coincidences. He has never acted in the understanding of "I have a nubuwwah anyway, if I make a mistake, I will receive a warning then I will correct the mistake" and he never gave up his precautions to achieve success. It is possible to see this principle in his attitude of that he exhibits throughout his life. Also, as a sign of his submission, he left the result of the issues to Allah after putting efforts, put trust in Him and appointed Allah as his agent. The prophethood of Muhammad (pbuh) which is a turning point in the world history is generally considered in two stages, the Meccan and Medinan periods. Prophet Muhammad lived in Mecca for more than fifty years and spent about thirteen years of this period by conveying the message. It is witnessed that in every stage of the life of Prophet Muhammad, especially his efforts to convey Islam to people, took place within the framework of a plan, taking precautions and putting trust in Allah. This humble study has been prepared by considering the studies done until today especially the first sources of Islamic History. The Prophet’s preaching activities in Mecca and Medina were evaluated in two stages as before the nubuwwah and after the nubuwwah in conjuction with the meanings of the concepts of precaution (tadbir) and trust (tawakkul). The aim of this study is to see the dimensions of the Prophet's understanding of tadbir and tawakkul that he put into practice in all areas of his life and to point out how he would guide Muslims especially in preaching activities.
Yazar isimleri: ['Murat GÖK']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Rumeli İslam Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumeli/issue/73039/1140080
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2523425
