Makale Başlığı: Effect of glucagon-like peptide-1 on differentiation of adipose derived mesenchymal stem cells into cardiomyocytes
Özet: Aim: Mesenchymal stem cells can easily differentiate into cardiomyocytes in vitro conditions usingvarious protocols. However, the agents used in these protocols have been reported to have someadverse effects on cell viability. Azacitidine is used to differentiate mesenchymal stem cells into cardiacmuscle cells. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of Exenatide a GLP-1 receptoragonist, on differentiation and viability of human adipose tissue derived stem cells into cardiomyocytes.Materials and Methods: The effects of Azacytidine and Exenatide on cell viability and proliferation ofhuman adipose tissue derived stem cells were analyzed with cytotoxicity assay. For differentiationprocedure, of human adipose tissue derived stem cells were incubated with Azacytidine and Exenatidethrough four weeks. The morphological alterations of human adipose tissue derived stem cells weremonitored and the expressions of cardiomyogenic differentiation markers (cTnI, GATA4 ve MYH7) wereevaluated immunohistochemically. Also, cardiac troponin I (cTnI) levels in the cultures were measuredusing enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Results were evaluated by one way analysis of variance(ANOVA) and post-hoc test.Results: Treatment of the human adipose tissue derived stem cells with Azacytidine significantlydecreased cell viability (54.4%) compared to control whereas treatment of cells with Azacytidine +Exenatide prevented cell death in a dose-dependent manner. Cells treated with Azacytidine andExenatide showed significant morphological alterations consistent with cardiyomyogenic differentiation,and increase in expression cardiomyogenic markers. cTnI levels were found significantly higher incultures treated separately and together with Azacytidine and Exenatide compared to control.Conclusion: Overall, these findings suggested that GLP-1 receptor agonist Exenatide may havebeneficial effects on cardiomyogenic differention of human adipose tissue derived stem cells byreducing cell damage caused by Azacytidine.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 12 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Ege Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://egetipdergisi.com.tr/tr/pub/issue/72611/1180666
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2673316
