Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of the relationship between formaldehyde exposure and memory impairment in pathology laboratory employees
Özet: Objective: It was aimed to evaluate the relationship between formaldehyde exposure and memory impairment in pathology laboratory workers in Mersin province. Methods: The data of this cross-sectional study were collected in May-September 2016. All of the six public and one private pathology laboratory staff (n= 98) who constituted the population of the study were included in the study. Formaldehyde ambient measurement was determined by the name badge measurement method. Learning and memory status were evaluated using the auditory-verbal learning test. In the statistical evaluation, descriptive statistics, Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, Mann Whitney U test, Spearman and Pearson Correlation analysis were used. Results: The mean age of the participating in the study was 40.06±9.09 years, 63.3% were female. The median of the formaldehyde measurement result of the employees was 0.030 ppm (0.004 - 4.400). Formaldehyde measurement results were lower in those with local ventilation, those with general ventilation, and those who work in the public sector. It was determined that there was no correlation between the learning, short-term memory and long-term memory scores of the employees and the total formaldehyde measurement result, formaldehyde exposure time and formaldehyde exposure index. When occupational groups were evaluated separately, it was determined that there was a negative correlation between the total amount of formaldehyde exposure of pathologists and laboratory technicians and their learning scores (r= -0.484, p= 0.009, r= -0.299, p= 0.049). Conclusion: In this study, it was determined that as the exposure to formaldehyde in pathologists and laboratory technicians increased, learning was impaired.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hakkı AKTAŞ', 'Ahmet Öner KURT', 'Şükrü Hakan KALEAĞASI']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye Halk Sağlığı Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tjph/issue/73653/1050899
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2166269
