Makale Başlığı: Poor quality of life and functioning in euthymic mood disorders
Özet: Aim: This study’s aim is to examine the relationship between clinical/demographic characteristics the quality of life (QOL) and functionality in patients with mood disorders. Material and Method: Total of 280 participants, including participants with bipolar disorder I (BD I), bipolar disorder II (BD II) major depressive disorder (MDD) in remission, and healty control subjects (HC), were included. Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), World Health Organization Quality of Life Instrument Short Form Scale (WHOQOL-BREF), Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI), Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), and General Functioning Assessment Scale (GAF) were used. The data were evaluated with the SPSS 25.0 statistical program.Results: Compared with HC, patients with MDD had the lowest scores in the QOL total and subdomain scores (p=.001). There was a significant negative correlation between the QOL scores and the BDI scores, but there was a positive correlation between the educational level and the total QOL and social, enviromental domain scores. There was a significant negative correlation between the total QOL and physical domain and the number of depressive episodes. There was a significant negative correlation between the social domain and the number of hospitalizations, but there was a significant positive correlation between the physical, enviromental domain scores and the age of first episode. Conclusion: QOL between MDD is lower than that of BD. Educational level, number of depressive episodes and hospitalizations, suicide attemps, age of first episode, and BDI scores correlated with QOL. Additionally, it was determined that the main factor affecting the QOL was residual depressive symptoms rather than type of mood disorder.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hanife KOCAKAYA', 'Hatice HARMANCI', 'Serap YÖRÜBULUT']
Yayın Yılı: 22 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Anatolian Current Medical Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/acmj/issue/73102/1116436
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2426851
