Makale Başlığı: Contribution to Art Education of Training Utopian İsmail Hakkı Tonguç
Özet: Republican project, construction of modern society approves to education one of the primary tool at cultural shift of social change. Within this period, education revaluation is spurt of eliminate the barriers at in front of improvement. First Board of Education met up at 17 July 1939 with country wide scientists, trainers, writers and artists for determination principles of Turkish education system. Minister of National Education Hasan Ali Yücel stated that the most important problem is coordination with officers and departments at his opening speech. The foremost agenda topic of assembly was public education in countryside. In our country "mobilization of become a nation and to be human" started by Hasan Ali Yücel with Village Institutes. Problem statement of the research is did make Village Institutes founded as an education and art utopia, duty. In the study, integrated approach adopted and specific documents concerning research investigated systematically. Village Institutes were established at 17 April 1940 by law no 3803 when Hasan Ali Yücel was Minister of National Education and İsmail Hakkı Tonguç was General Director of Primary Education. The most typical characteristic of these schools was suitable of our country conditions and advisor to society on course to modernization. There are not another example of these institutes in the world. Participatory and democratic administrative mentality, syllabuses and, training administration and principles aroused interest by many countries. In Village Institutes, agriculture and technical lessons are given. Indicator of modernization is efforts concerning at fine arts in these schools. Village Institute act is an entirely national movement in point of way of thinking and interests. So the Institutes served nationalization of local culture even universalisation. Tonguç stated that utopian approach to education is an obligation. Tonguç's training utopia is radical and it retraced to education problems. His utopia bases on facts and braces up him. Village Institutes closed by pressure of earth aristocracy at 1954. Village Institutes were shown as a model to the world by UNESCO. Hundreds of writers, artists and scientists trained at these schools but this project can't was continued. In other words, Village Institutes, Tonguç's utopia came to an end for a while like 14 years
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Haziran 2018
Dergi ismi: Akademia Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asj/issue/40224/479020
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/568031
