Makale Başlığı: The Cult of Zeus and the Bull Connection in Paphlagonia
Özet: In the Paphlagonia Region, the most common belief in antiquity was in the Cult of Zeus, and according to epigraphic documents, the weight of belief in the local gods originating from the toponym is found. God, responsible for climatic events, was understood to be the provider of the fertility reaching the earth from the sky and the protector of life. Depending on the geographical conditions of the region, the god also has the identity of a mountain god. Although archaeological, numismatic and epigraphic data are known from the region regarding the cult, 19 stone bull offerings, some of which we know from inscriptions, are of different importance. Although the stone bull offerings have minor differences iconographically, they are united, but they are spread over a wide period of time (V. B.C. - II. century A.D.). In the evaluation made with style-critical comparison made according to different time periods and cultures for stone bull offerings, it is concluded that although the artifacts are votives, they also represent the god himself. The religious content of the tone bull offerings and some details of their iconography show continuity with the Storm God Cult, of the Bronze Age and later entered into syncretistic integration with the God Zeus. At this point, it is thought that the stone bull offerings are representative of a deep-rooted heritage dating from early times. The reason for this is that the beliefs are conservatively preserved due to factors such as the region being isolated due to geographical conditions and having less cultural interaction. In these circumstances, it can be said that the Paphlagonia stone bull offerings are the zoomorphic reflections of a late period, which exhibit a syncretistic connection between the local storm gods of the Bronze Age and the belief in Zeus.
Yazar isimleri: ['Murat KARASALİHOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Cedrus
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cedrus/issue/70538/999107
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1988471
