Makale Başlığı: A Quantitative Research On The Perception Of The Faculty Of Theology Students And Graduates Towards Philosophy Courses
Özet: From the moment man enters the field of being, religion and education are indispensable phenomena for him. Both have the ability to develop and mature people. At this point, religious education is not only meeting the need to believe; it is also aimed to educate individuals who have assimilated religious values, have a culture of coexistence with people of different faiths and opinions, can produce solutions to new problems they face, and rich in the world of thought. In order to achieve these goals; It is important to have a philosophical and philosophical view, which is also expressed as curiosity, research, questioning, going after the truth and thinking in depth.  In order to gain this, the faculties of theology perform a preconditioned function.Theological faculties where higher religious education is carried out in our country; They are the most important institutions in which specialist individuals are trained for both formal and widespread religious education. These institutions, which were opened with the aim of raising "high religious followers" that society needs, have always maintained philosophy courses in curriculum programs.In this article; The attitudes and perspectives of the students and graduates of the faculty of theology towards the philosophy group courses were tried to be determined with the help of the applied questionnaire. In the research, first of all, information was given about the subject, importance, purpose, method, hypotheses, universe and the sample group of the  research and similar studies that had been done before were touched upon. The demographic characteristics of the participants and the findings obtained from the questionnaire are shown in the form of a table. Finally, the hypotheses set up at the beginning of the research were evaluated, and suggestions were made in line with the results obtained.
Yazar isimleri: ['Süleyman GÜMRÜKÇÜOĞLU', 'Abdulbaki AKSU']
Yayın Yılı: 14 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: İhya Uluslararası İslam Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ihya/issue/71248/1075042
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2259375
