Makale Başlığı: THE IMPACT OF ECONOMIC GROWTH AND ECONOMIC GLOBALIZATION ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY: THE CASE OF TRANSITION ECONOMIES
Özet: Environmental pollution and its causes have been examined from many different perspectives in recent years. In the field of economics, theoretical and empirical studies have been carried out on this subject and the factors causing environmental pollution have been tried to be revealed. However, when the results obtained from the studies are examined, it is understood that there is no consensus among the researchers. In this study, which we have done in order to contribute to the ongoing discussions in order to ensure economic growth by protecting the environment, the effect of economic growth and economic globalization on CO2 emissions is examined. The study was conducted for the period between 1995 and 2014 in a sample of 14 countries accepted as transition countries according to the classification made by the IMF. The results obtained in the analyzes made with the FMOLS method in the study show that the Environmental Kuznets Curve hypothesis is valid during the study period. In other findings, it has been obtained that the effect of energy consumption and economic globalization on CO2 emissions is positive.. In the Dumitrescu-Hurlin causality test results, it is determined that there is a unidirectional causality relationship from energy consumption to CO2 emissions, and a bidirectional causality relationship between economic growth and economic globalization and CO2 emissions. In this respect, it is beneficial to consider environmental degradation and to support the import of environmentally friendly technologies while applying economic globalization policies to adapt to the free market economy. In addition, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources should be encouraged.
Yazar isimleri: ['Murat TEKBAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Finans Ekonomi ve Sosyal Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/fesa/issue/72711/1152703
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2570949
