Makale Başlığı: Bibliometric Analysis of Studies in the Field of Aviation Management in the Post-Deregulation Period
Özet: Aviation management is a broad field of science that encompasses all kinds of managerial and operational processes, generally in the safe transportation of passengers and cargo within the aviation industry. However, this branch of science, which is still very young in the history of science, acts as a catalyst in the economy by adding high added value to the world trade volume. This industry, which gained momentum with the liberalization period after 1980, has an ecosystem in which strong organizational structures can hold. With its key functions such as safety management, human resources management, marketing management, and financial management in terms of its scope, it needs a visionary perspective with a working area within the airport management network. From this point of view, understanding the development processes of the field in the literature and revealing its relationship with other variables will provide a systematic and holistic perspective to the related literature. For this purpose, the bibliometric analysis method was used in this study, which was conducted in the field of aviation management. The study covers a process, especially from the liberalization period to the present. The purpose of this study in the field of aviation management is to create a perspective on the aspects in which the field offers mobility, the development, quality, and quantity of the process. In this context; In this content; Studies in the field of aviation management were taken from WEB of Science (VOSviewer). Word cloud and keyword maps were created covering the distribution of the studies by years, the authors who contributed the most to the field, the institutions, and journals according to the number of publications, and the languages used in the publications. The contribution levels of the studies to the literature and the areas in which the subject interacts are explained.
Yazar isimleri: ['Abdullah TÜRK']
Yayın Yılı: 22 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Aviation
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jav/issue/73447/1166981
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2615928
