Makale Başlığı: The Investigation of Mathematics and Science Teachers’ Attitudes Towards STEM Education regarding Multiple Variables
Özet: Teachers should possess sufficient knowledge, strong beliefs, and positive attitudes regarding STEM education to achieve STEM education goals. These goals include developing students' problem-solving and high-level thinking skills, increasing their interest in STEM careers, and success in STEM disciplines. Attitudes are among the most important factors influencing whether teachers will use new and innovative approaches such as STEM in their classrooms. In this study, mathematics and science teachers' attitudes towards STEM education were described, and it was examined whether the attitudes differed based on their gender, major subject, and teaching experience. One hundred sixty teachers participated in the study, and the data were collected using the "STEM Attitude Scale." Data were analyzed using descriptive and relational analysis. The descriptive analysis results showed that the participants had positive attitudes towards STEM activities, but their attitudes towards lesson planning were at the level of undecided. With the MANOVA test, the differences in STEM attitudes were examined according to the independent variables of gender, the major subject, and teaching experience, and it was concluded that only gender alone represented 13% of the variance in the attitudes. In addition, it was observed that there were significant differences regarding gender*major subject and gender*teaching experience. Except for the female teachers with 11-15 years of teaching experience, the mean scores of the female teachers’ attitudes towards lesson planning were lower than the male teachers. Female mathematics teachers and male science teachers had the highest mean scores of attitudes towards STEM activities. It has been suggested to design professional development programs to improve teachers' attitudes towards lesson planning.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kaan DEMİRKOL', 'Büşra KARTAL', 'Adem TAŞDEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Akademik Yayınlar Dergisi (TAY Journal)
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tayjournal/issue/69061/1051910
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2169423
