Makale Başlığı: Semantic Interpretations Expressed by Musnad Ilayh with Tawābiʿ Elements -In the Context of Abū Yaʿḳūb al-Sakkākī’s Miftāḥ al-ʿulūm-
Özet: AbstractIn the science of rhetoric, the cases related to al-musnad ilayh and musnad, which are the basic elements of the sentence, are examined in the maʿānī section. Rhetoricists deal with a significant part of the isnād with its different rhetorical aspects, with issues such as the musnad ilayh (subject) ḥadhf-dhikr, being maʿrifa-nakira, presentation (taḳdīm)-postponement (teʾk̲h̲īr), tawābiʿ (sentence expansion) elements and separating pronouns. The same is done for musnad (predicate), which is the other pillar of the sentence. The fact that maʿrifa a musnad ilayh receives the adjective, tawkīd, badal, ʿatf al-bayān, ʿatf al-nasaq and the tawābiʿ elements called separating pronoun adds a lot of eloquence to the sentence. In a sentence, musnad ilayh taking subordinate words or separating pronouns and not taking them are not the same thing. Although the tawābiʿ elements and the separating pronoun are not words that relate to the essence of the sentence, the fact that maʿrifa musnad ilayh takes them both makes the intent clear and understandable and adds a richness of meaning to the sentence with different semantic interpretations. Abū Yaʿḳūb al-Sakkākī states that if a maʿrifa is a musnad ilayh, the sentence is affected by emphatic meanings such as declaration, praising-dispraising, specialization and tawkīd. In case of falsification, erroneous assumption is avoided or the general meaning is indicated. It is explained more with ʿatf al-bayān and detailed with ʿatf al-nasaq, changing or declaring the provision. When it takes a badal, it is intended to further clarify and reinforce. In case of taking a separating pronoun, musnad is allocated to musnad ilayh. In this study, the elements of tawābiʿ that a maʿrifa musnad ilayh and the different eloquent and semantic interpretations of the separating pronoun in the syntax are discussed in the context of al-Sakkākī’s Miftāḥ al-ʿulūm. The fact that maʿrifa musnad ilayh takes tawābiʿ elements and separating pronoun depending on the caste changes the semantic dimension of the sentence. According to al-Sakkākī, the contextual reasons for musnad ilayh’s taking the elements of tawābiʿ are also emphasized.
Yazar isimleri: ['Abdullah HACIBEKİROĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Universal Journal of Theology
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ujte/issue/69914/1114753
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2419998
