Makale Başlığı: The West and Islamic Civilization in The Context of The  Post-Truth Paradigm and The Clash of Civilizations Thesis
Özet: The West and Islamic Civilization in The Context of The Post-Truth Paradigm and The Clash of Civilizations ThesisCivilizations have existed with a historical background that has been continuing interactively since ancient times. Thanks to this interaction, although there are significant differences between the Western and Islamic civilizations in a special sense, they have existed in many periods as two civilizations that affect each other much more than they seem in a long historical process. When the formation and developments processes of these civilizations are examined in detail, it can be seen that both civilizations transferred their accumulations to each other in terms of knowledge, science, technique, trade and so on. In this sense, the history of civilizations is also the history of the developments of societies/humanity. On the other hand, the “conflicting, separating, marginalizing, West-centred” civilization readings advocated by some thinkers such as Samuel Phillips Huntington and Francis Fukuyama lead to many debates in the context of civilizations. At this point, it is very important to understand the point and process of the discussions well. What does the concept of civilization mean in this context? How is the Western and Islamic civilization portyed in the clash of civilizations thesis? Clash of civilizations in the paradigm of the post-truth era? Or an alliance of civilizations? Is “civilization hybridization” possible on the axis of the post-truth paradigm? Or does the post-truth paradigm reveal “civilization hybridization” rather than a clash of civilizations? And similar questions reveal the problematic of the study. The study attempts to analyze, discuss, understand and make sense of this problematic with the documentation method based on text scanning.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammed YAMAÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: GAB Akademi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gabakademi/issue/72936/1167851
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2619468
