Makale Başlığı: Balkan geography reflected in Yavuz Bülent Bâkiler's book from Skopje to Kosovo
Özet: Since the Balkan lands remained under Ottoman rule for centuries, it is a geography kneaded with Turkish language and culture. For this reason, it is possible to encounter the reflections of the Turkish language and culture in every corner. One of the works reflecting the traces of the mentioned culture in the Balkan geography is Yavuz Bülent Bâkiler's work from Skopje to Kosovo. The work, which reflects the author's impressions about Macedonia and Kosovo, which are important centers of this geography, was created from the notes of his 10-day trip to Struga in 1976, where he was invited to represent Turkey. In the work, it is possible to find the artist's impressions of the Balkan geography, his impressions of the Turkish education there, and various criticisms.  In this study, the author's determinations of the traces of Turkish culture he observed in the Balkan geography, based on his work named from Skopje to Kosovo, which consists of his travel writings, the state of Turkish, and his impressions and criticisms of Turkish education studies, the change in this geography from the time the work was written to the present, are exhibited with comparisons. While the traces of Turkish culture in the Balkan geography, especially in the architectural field, were determined from the travel writings from Skopje to Kosovo, the past and present status of these works were compared. Based on the notes of were also insufficient and there was even a shortage of Turkish broadcasting on the radios at the time the work was published, it has been determined that these activities have increased and the problems have decreased with the projects of the state and various organizations. In addition, the artist criticized that the Turks in Anatolia were unaware of their cognates living in these geographies at the time the work was published. As a result, Bâkiler's work, which introduced the Balkan geography to us with its problems and criticisms at an early date, has contributed to increasing our awareness of this geography in terms of Turkish education, cultural heritage and shopping. Regarding our study data were collected through documents review and contents analysis.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sevilay ÖZTÜRK']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1192646
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2722990
