Makale Başlığı: The Effect of a Specialized Karate Corrective Exercise Program on Flat Feet and Foot Indices in Karatekas
Özet: Amateur karate practitioners who suffer from flat feet are less successful than their other rivals. The athletes often have problems in their position in kata and explosive starts or fast reactions in Kumite. Since they suffer from flat feet, they are not resistant enough to the body's pressure on their feet. The researcher is now seeking to answer the question of whether a specialized karate training course can affect the pressure rate and amateur karate practitioners' flat feet. The current study is semi-experimental, using pre-test and post-test. The statistical population of this study included 20 individuals (10 with flat feet and 10 with normal). A foot scan machine evaluated the plantar pressure values in ten sole areas. The experimental group conducted specialized karate practices for 8 weeks, 3 sessions per week. Yet, the control group did not conduct a special practice at this time and continued their normal practices the same as before. The obtained data were analyzed using a covariance analysis test. This study showed that the rate of flat feet in the experimental group has improved after applying the corrective exercises (p≤0.05). Moreover, the planter pressure value was higher in the experimental group than in the control one (p≤0.05), which significantly improved after corrective exercises. The specialized karate exercises affect the sole, foot surface, and front foot pressure of amateur karate kids from 9-13 years old. Given the results of this study, identifying the amateur karate practitioners with flat feet using the tests of this study is recommended to be reformed through the corrective program. Moreover, the findings of this study showed that the plantar pressure value in people with flat feet is more than the control group. It was assumed that the increase in plantar pressure could be because of ankle overpronation. This value significantly decreases after using corrective exercises. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Amin AZİMKHANİ', 'Mohammad Hossein KEYKHAEE']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Spor Bilimleri Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jssr/issue/67856/1037185
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2134478
