Makale Başlığı: AN ASSESSMENT ON THE ROLE OF SQUARE IN THE FORMATION OF NATIONAL IDENTITY: THE CASE OF BAKU
Özet: After the American Declaration of Independence, the French Revolution, and the Congress of Vienna, the borders of today is European States began to take shape, and the understanding of "defining" the societies living within these borders also changed. The fact that nationalism is ideologically on the agenda of governments has resulted in giving direction to the community within the framework of the dominant ideology. Various tools have been produced by the administrations to gather the society under their prevailing views. In this process, cities have become one of the main tools that cause social transformation.Cities, considered the cradle of civilization, have been one of the dynamics that ensure the transmission of the dominant ideology throughout history. The fact that cities have all kinds of opportunities compared to rural areas has enabled these regions to become demographic centers. The demographic superiority that emerged in the cities allowed the society to unite around the same ideal and became influential in developing similar behavior patterns. In particular, the emergence of nation-states has prepared the environment for the increase of national figures in the urban area and the interaction of the population with these symbols. Parks, avenues, streets, various private and public spaces are examples of urban spaces within the city. In parallel with the idea of the nation, urban spaces are decorated with national symbols; figures that have a strong influence on society are brought to the fore. Thus, the tendency to create a national urban identity through urban spaces has begun.One of the areas that set an example for urban spaces is squares. The squares, which respond to various demands such as gathering, socializing, meeting, and spending time, are located in strategic areas of the city. Squares, which have a function for both individuals and vehicles, are the areas where urban transportation is made intensively, communication between people is established, and collective consciousness is transferred and kept alive. In addition to daily needs, squares also have important functions in creating national consciousness. The squares, which were nationalized by the sovereign power, have been transformed on the axis of ideologies. With the addition of national images, squares contribute to the formation of national identity. Some of these urban spaces are located in Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, one of the most important centers of the Caucasus.Baku, which has a historical past, has been under the rule of the Russians since the beginning of the 19th century. Although it was included in the literature as an independent city of the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic between 1918-1920, it soon came under the rule of the Soviet Union. When the Russian culture was dominant, Baku underwent various changes in parallel with the political ideology. Bringing the Russian civilization to the forefront, making the Russian language widespread in the urban area, and uniting the Russian ideology have been among the main goals of the Russian administrations. In line with these purposes, the design of Baku has been realized in a way that will serve this political thought.Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Azerbaijan, which tried to erase the traces of the past and establish its national ideology, took some steps by this policy. Baku has been considered one of the main venues where the idea of the nation will be exhibited and has been built in this direction. In the study, the place of the squares in the urban area was investigated, and the effect of 20 Yanvar, Azadlık, and Fevvareler squares in Baku on the national identity was evaluated.
Yazar isimleri: ['Oğuz Kağan BAYRAKDAR', 'Fatma Betül AYDEMİR BAŞ', 'Şeyda ÇEVİKEL']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Genel Türk Tarihi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gttad/issue/71320/1076206
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2264002
