Makale Başlığı: An Exemplary Application for Disaster Management in Public Administration: AYDES
Özet: The concept of public administration is becoming more prominent in an age when the whole world is plunged into chaos due to a global pandemic and suffers from an increasing human population. Within this concept, it is also essential for states to appoint and enforce the actors to be able to assume active roles in generating and implementing novel policies. The need for policies that emphasize the transparent, flexible, citizen-oriented, and efficient use of public resources promotes the new public administration paradigm. Disaster management, predominated by the new public administration approach, shows off its flexible structure and assumes the function that allows the implementation of rapid decision-making mechanisms in disasters. Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency (AFAD), affiliated with the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Turkey with the presidential decree in 2018, is authorized to predict, plan, organize, monitor, and improve every stage of disasters. The synergetic effects of the Ministry of Interior being responsible for both disaster management and internal security are also considered important in this context. In the case of a disaster, it is of great importance to reach the correct information and location and to ensure healthy communication. AYDES application, one of the most prominent indicators that AFAD pursues world standards in disaster management, provides a comprehensive information network with its components and convenience to disaster teams. While most sub-components of the AYDES application provide data flow through a closed system jointly with the relevant institutions and organizations, it also offers citizens access to relevant information thanks to another sub-module, the AYDES Integrated Disaster Management Platform, which also makes citizens a part of disaster management. The relevant literature hosts limited knowledge on this application which is also not well known in national and international spheres. Thus, gathering and interpreting the available data on the application may reveal the significance of the present study. The study attempts to demonstrate the functioning of disaster management in Turkey and to engage in a broad analysis of the AYDES application. Considering that the application with advanced technologies would bring significant contributions to the flow of information and change the way of disaster management, the application may need to be constantly updated to ensure its sustainability.
Yazar isimleri: ['Can Ozan TUNCER']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İletişim Kuram ve Araştırma Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ikad/issue/72778/1154104
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2575027
