Makale Başlığı: Financial Analysis of the Covid-19 Pandemic at Sectoral Scale: The Example of Getir Venture Capital
Özet: With the transformation of Covid-19 into a dangerous epidemicon a global scale, countries have imposed restrictions coveringvarious quarantine processes. In the process of these restrictions,some companies have developed various applications wherepeople can order online so that they can continue to receiveservices within the restriction areas. Many sectors have enteredthe restructuring process according to the new conditionsbrought by Covid-19. The pandemic process has led to the spreadof digitalization and the proliferation of online shoppingcompanies. The interest in these services has become excessivelydemanded by the effect of the pandemic and has gainedmomentum in the direction of significant growth. One of theseapplications is RE-PIE Real estate and Private Equity PortfolioManagement A.Ş. Getir is the “Getir” application established byVenture Capital. The purpose of this study, RE-PIE Real estateand Private Equity Portfolio Management A.Ş. In order to seethe financial effects of the "Getir" firm established by GetirPrivate Equity before and after the pandemic, one of the financialanalysis methods, comparative tables analysis is done. Withinthe scope of the study, the sectoral effects of Covid-19 werediscussed and the necessary literature was searched in order tosee the effects of Covid on a sectoral basis. In the study,information is given about comparative tables analysis. In themethod of the study, by the Independent Audit Reports of theEnterprise; Balance Sheet, Profit or Loss Statement, OtherComprehensive Income Statement, Cash Flow Statement andTotal Value / Net Asset Value Change Tables have beenanalyzed by using the comparative table analysis method basedon the years 2019-2020-2021. As a result of this study;Although there have been contractions in some sectors on aglobal scale due to the restrictions, it has been determined thatthis situation allows some companies to grow and make highprofits, and the "Getir" application, which attracts greatattention in our country, has achieved great success whencompared before and after the pandemic.
Yazar isimleri: ['Aydın ŞENOL', 'Sergen SANCAK']
Yayın Yılı: 2 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Pamukkale Üniversitesi İşletme Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/piar/issue/71093/1119456
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2439742
