Makale Başlığı: CLAIMS AND LAWSUITS REGARDING THE ADMINISTRATORS OF LİVANE DISTRICT FROM THE BEGINNING OF THE 19TH CENTURY TO THE END OF THE PERIOD OF SULTAN ABDULMECİD
Özet: This study explores the demands and lawsuits against the administrators of the Livane district, such as mufti and mukhtars, from the beginning of the 19th century after the publication of the 1864 Provincial Regulations. The study discusses the period when the district governors were the administrators. However, it was seen that the people of Livane and the governors of the province Erzurum and the sanjak Çıldır, to which Livane was affiliated, were not satisfied with the administration policy at the time. Regarding the fact that In the Ottoman Empire, when the local governors in the provinces and the Sanjak's were off during the campaign, leaving their posts to the trustees as administrators. Mütesellims were officials who collected taxes as well as fulfilled administrative duties in the provinces, sanjaks and districts where they were assigned instead of their Beylerbeyi's and sanjakbeyi’s. Before the Tanzimat, they were assigned to the administrations of the sanjaks and districts administered by the governors and mutasarrifs. Mütesellims were also called voivodes in the XVIth century Ottoman Empire. This task continued from the end of the century until the Tanzimat period. Since 1842, accident managers took charge of accidents.  The people of Livane also reported their complaints about these administrators and wrote many petitions to Istanbul. The state did not remain indifferent to these complaints and sent orders to the necessary places to replace the said administrators and restore order. When the requests about the Livane administrators are examined in the documents of the period, Livane is an important city whose administrators were asked for soldiers and ammunition for the security of the eastern regions such as Erzurum, Ardahan and Kars during the Ottoman-Persian War in 1820-1823. Livane played an important role in the withdrawal of the Iranian army in terms of soldiers and ammunition.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 9 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Karadeniz İncelemeleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kid/issue/73356/1201501
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2760004
