Makale Başlığı: Examining the Folk Medicine Elements Mentioned in Kemâleddîn Demîrî’s “Hayâtu’l-Hayevâni’l-Kübrâ” in Terms of Traditional Treatment Methods
Özet: Purpose: The famous Arabic writer Kemâleddîn Demîrî prepared a zoology book called "Hayâtu’l-Hayevâni’l-Kübrâ" in Hijri 773 (1372). While giving information about animals, the author also gave information about which diseases the products related to the animal in question will be used in the treatment. This paper aims to reveal the animals mentioned in "Hayâtu’l-Hayevâni’l-Kübrâ" and used in the treatment of various diseases and the names of diseases among the Arabs in the 14th century. In the study, it will be mentioned how these animals or various animal products will be used in diseases. In addition, folk medicine practices mentioned in "Hayâtu’l-Hayevâni’l-Kübrâ" will be examined in terms of realistic methods, magical methods, and mixed, both realistic and magical, methods.  Method: This study was prepared between 03.12.2021 and 15.04.2022, and in the study, the Beirut edition of Hayâtu'l-Hayevâni'l-Kübrâ and its Turkish translation made by Rahmi Serin in 2018 were used. After determining the animal names used in treatments, it was determined in which kind of diseases these animals were used and in what way. In the study, the names of the diseases were listed alphabetically and the treatment of these diseases with animal products was stated. In this regard, the diseases mentioned in "Hayâtu’l-Hayevâni’l-Kübrâ" and their treatment with animal products were examined in line with the healing methods used in folk medicine. Findings: Fifty-seven disease names were identified in "Hayâtu’l-Hayevâni’l-Kübrâ". Some of these diseases are intended to treat poisonings caused by snake, scorpion and bee stings. Apart from these, tooth, head, spleen and eye pain and various diseases are included. In the treatment of diseases, mostly realistic treatment methods have been applied and mostly, animal products were used. Conclusion: From past to present, human beings have desired to resolve all their spiritual and physical disorders by using animal products. They have used spell methods besides realistic methods in the treatment of diseases. “Hayâtu’l-Hayevâni’l-Kübrâ” gave place to a variety of prayers and spells besides treatments with animal products in order to treat diseases.  	 
Yazar isimleri: ['İbrahim ÜNALAN', 'Özlem ÜNALAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Mersin Üniversitesi Tıp Fakültesi Lokman Hekim Tıp Tarihi ve Folklorik Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mutftd/issue/72580/1104471
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2378222
