Makale Başlığı: Two Software Sector Leaders, India and Ireland, and Suggestions for Developing Countries
Özet: The software and information communication technologies are critical and valuable sectors that affect all others, provide a competitive edge to businesses, opportunities for social development for societies that have been successful in the sector. It particularly attracts the interest of developing nations. States take numerous actions in order for the sector to expand and benefit more from the youthful population's dynamism. Additionally, the software sector offers numerous opportunities for developing countries with a young population, such as Turkey. This aspect of the study is believed to contain critical and reference information for companies seeking to operate in the sector and for sector policymakers, as well as reveal a different perspective that the sector requires. While advancements in the software sector create new opportunities and opportunities for countries participating in the developments, they also pose a threat to countries not participating in the developments. In general, successful examples of countries that act promptly and take necessary precautions in the information technology sector can be enticing to other countries. The study methodically; An evaluation is made on the software industry in the world. It focuses on two major software exporters (India and Ireland) and evaluates how countries such as Israel, Russia and China are successful in the sector. The factors for success in the sector, as well as the points to consider for developing countries, are revealed by a comprehensive literature review. The assessment of the companies that stand out in the global software sector in terms of market size, the success story of India and Ireland from their inception to the present, the most significant companies in the Indian and Irish software sector, their market sizes, and the human resources they employ. The results show that China and the USA are two crucial nations for the development of the software sector in the present. China is the most prepared country for future technological scenarios, particularly in terms of technology infrastructure (5G technology), and invests extensively in future technological developments. India, Ireland, and Israel have a long history in the software business dating all the way back to the 1960s, with institutions such as Ireland's Foreign Direct Investment Agency (IDA) and The National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM) playing a vital role. Numerous countries, including the United States of America, Norway, and Australia, have signed training agreements with India and are developed programs for corporate cooperation. As a result, countries that rise to the top of the sector have long-standing activities that are backed up by government policies. Diasporas have had a significant impact on the growth of the sector in India and Ireland. Supervision and control of sectoral planning is critical to success.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammet DAMAR']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Ege Eğitim Teknolojileri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/eetd/issue/70271/1142633
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2533724
