Makale Başlığı: Properties of The European States in The Jerusalem Governorate During the First World War (European Property)
Özet: Jerusalem is the holy city built on four mountains surrounded by valleys from its north and west. The city of Jerusalem has gained its importance throughout the ages from its religious sanctity to Judaism, Christianity and Islam. The Christians were interested in visiting the city and making pilgrimages to the places where Jesus was born and lived to participate in the religious rituals that take place before and during the Christian holidays. With the development of marine conductors in the nineteenth century, the number of Christian pilgrims to Jerusalem increased to visit the holy sites, especially the Church of the Holy Sepulcher, and to engage in religious rites and prayers, and the desire to perform a religious duty to atone for their sins, forgive their sins, help them heal from diseases, find spouse and have children. Jerusalem was crowded with pilgrims from all over the world who came to visit the countries that Christ trampled on. In addition to Jerusalem, their visit included churches, monasteries and villages surrounding Jerusalem and Palestine in general. They are driven by religious feeling and driven by their spiritual need to come to this city regardless of their different countries and nationalities. From this point of view, religious and cultural penetration and the protection of Christian minorities became the basis of European penetration into Palestine in the nineteenth century, when the door was opened wide to European competition, through the support and sponsorship of missionary, charitable and cultural activities and their promotion in the Holy Land. Europeans tried to expand their influence on the Holy Land by controlling the city of Jerusalem between 1860-1917 and intensified the competition for land ownership with various motives, especially religious motives. There are dozens of sales contracts in the records of the Jerusalem Court of Appeals and the Presidency of the Republic of Turkey Presidency Ottoman Archives in the context of documents showing the fierce competition for real estate and land ownership. The gifts that the Ottoman Empire offered to some European countries in the form of real estate and land were also abused. European countries have acquired a large amount of real estate in Jerusalem Liva through their own personnel and diplomatic moves. After that, slowly or urgently, settlements were built between Jerusalem and Jaffa, varying in pace according to the period. It is necessary to examine the properties that England, France, Russia and Italy owned in Jerusalem until 1914 in order to shed light on the European influence in the holy lands and its reflections on the Jerusalem Governorship. It contains various data on the expansion of European influence in Jerusalem in particular and Palestine in general.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Turcology Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/turcology/issue/73283/1196764
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2739833
