Makale Başlığı: Traditional Medicine Approach to Bioresonance Therapies and Effects to Health of Bioresonance
Özet: Frequency and energy-based treatments, which are expressed as the medicine of the future, are not yet a well-known field in the world. Although it is a new field, its effectiveness in treatment and ease of application make this field the choice of many people. It is mostly used for supportive treatment. It is not yet an approved traditional and complementary medicine (TCM) practice in Turkey. Such therapy methods are preferred by health professionals who think that people are not just physical bodies, but are energy, frequency and vibration-based structures. Western medicine teaching system generally evaluates patients only as the physical body, and diagnoses and follows up the diseases with biochemical analyzes. TCM is an understanding of medicine that evaluates people holistically, using diagnostic methods used in classical medicine, aiming to eliminate the main underlying cause rather than the consequences of diseases and to provide biological balance. Studies have shown that everything in nature has a frequency and energy field, and tissues, organs, cells, bacteria, viruses, parasites, fungi and toxins, even emotions and thoughts, have a frequency. It has been shown in studies that the pathogen entering the body changes frequency and as a result, the frequencies of healthy people and sick people are different. It is thought that many factors such as foods, diseases, psychological and emotional conditions and so on disturb the frequency balance of the person. A new method, bioresonance therapies, is applied to eliminate this frequency imbalance. The aim of this article is to ensure that such energy medicine therapies are integrated into TCM in diagnosis and treatment, to contribute to studies to be a treatment method with a supportive and complementary approach to diagnosis, and to raise awareness about bioresonance therapies in physicians.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammed KOÇİNKAĞ', 'Kanat TAYFUN', 'Ahmet Yaser MÜSLÜMANOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Bütünleyici ve Anadolu Tıbbı Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/batd/issue/73843/1112847
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2412262
