Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of Design Possibilities with a Typed Light Steel Module System in Housing Production
Özet: Today the search for alternative solutions for traditional construction systems in our country, which is a region of increasing housing needs and earthquakes, has brought prefabrication and lightweight structures to the forefront. Meanwhile, the construction sector is consuming large amounts of materials and resources which has created a need for sustainable construction systems. Off-site production has become a great sustainable practice to both to minimize the effects on the environment and to obtain buildings that offer high comfort conditions in a short time. Controlled and largely finished mass production is possible in factory environments. In this way, the disturbance to the environment is reduced by shortening the construction period, and thanks to controlled production, material waste is minimized, and resource conservation is ensured. In addition, minimizing the margin of error also increases earthquake safety. Light steel construction systems, which absorb less earthquake loads thanks to their lightness, came to the forefront in our country after the 1999 Gölcük Earthquake. This construction system allows production and recycling outside the construction site making it possible to produce buildings faster. The carrier system of light steel structures is arranged in three different ways: stick, panel, and module. Among these methods, the module system has the highest industrial efficiency. With the modular units being prepared in the factory environment prior to the assembly of the installation equipment, the installation time in the construction site is minimized. In this way, light steel modular box systems is a highly recommendable alternative construction system for fast and reliable building. Considering the life cycle process for sustainable construction, consumption of resources and the amount of waste can be monitored through industrialization. Modules with detachable connections allow refurbishment, reuse, and recycling after use. In addition, the adaptability of modular boxes to different climates and regional conditions allows for their use all over the world (Yılmaz, B., 2017: 1).
Yazar isimleri: ['Burcu YILMAZ', 'Özlem EREN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Mimarlık ve Yaşam
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/my/issue/72227/1015124
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2048015
