Makale Başlığı: Telerehabilitation in Elderly Care
Özet: Prolonging life expectancy globally and medical science and technology developments necessitated changing how health services are delivered to the aging population. Telerehabilitation is a specialized field of telehealth that refers to clinical rehabilitation services, including assessment, diagnosis, and treatment. It has become an attractive option for the elderly with chronic diseases and difficulties accessing health services. Exercise and treatment programs must be done face to face to discipline and correctly direct them. However, the elderly who want to receive rehabilitation need to go to rehabilitation centers or hospitals, and it requires time and cost. It has been determined that the most effective service that can be given to the elderly in terms of health services is the service performed in their own environment where the person feels comfortable. It has been reported that home-based programs are superior to center-based programs for elderly individuals, especially in terms of compliance with exercise and rehabilitation programs in the long term. The 2019 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has required a change in the rehabilitation services provided to the elderly, primarily how they are delivered, as it increases the risk of developing severe diseases in the elderly. The Covid-19 pandemic has adversely affected physical activity and psychological state. During the pandemic, mandatory quarantine and social isolation conditions to avoid the risk of contamination, limited access to face-to-face services, and fear of potential exposure to the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) have increased the requirement for telerehabilitation. Additionally, recent changes to rules, regulations and insurance reimbursement have promoted the use of telerehabilitation. Changes and developments in medical science will inevitably lead to the development of new interdisciplinary research models and products for the care of the elderly. This article examines the services and applications of telerehabilitation in the aging population.
Yazar isimleri: ['Melda SEÇER']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Geriatrik Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/geriatrik/issue/72446/1124885
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2462009
