Makale Başlığı: Sultan Veled’s Praise to Cities in His Diwan
Özet: Sultan Walad, who wrote mathnawi with an inspiration from his father Mawlana’s Mathnawî, is both an Anatolian poet of Persian literature and one of the first poets of our Turkish Diwan Literature with his Persian and Turkish poems, has also created a Diwan, most of which consists of Persian ghazals. In this poetry Diwan, besides the mystical ghazals, there are also praise (madhiya) odes written for the statesmen of the period and the cities of Konya, Kayseri, Aksaray and Kütahya.In this article, after giving brief information about Sultan Walad’s childhood and education, the ghazals he wrote to the mentioned cities in both Persian and Turkish translation, as well as the information about Sultan Walad’s travels to these cities and the events that took place there will be presentedSultan Walad described Konya, the city where he lived by saying “O people of Konya! Know that you were born in the city of Life!” His characterization of this city as “Small and elder saints” and completing his ghazal with the blessings of his father Mawlana on this city shows his love, respect and devotion to Konya; The fact that he describes Kayseri as “the city of the chosen people” in a ghazal that is presumably said during a trip he made to Kayseri and mentions the names of the elders of the place shows the value he gave to Kayseri, the second center of the Seljuks after Konya. While Sultan Walad was still in this city, he had a conversation in a council where the Seljuk Muîneddin Parvânae was present, and then he was both praised and criticized by those who did not like his talk. Sultan Walad also praised Kütahya, which he described as “the city of light”, in one of his ghazals, and he made a trip to this city and sang the ghazal for this city, although the sources did not mention his trip of that period. Of course, Kütahya has a special value in the eyes of Sultan Walad because his daughter Mutahhara Khatun moved to this city as a bride. Although it is reported differently in the sources, his daughter was married to Suleyman Shah from the Mutahhara “Germiyanoğulları” Principality, and the girl named Devlet Khatun, who was born from this marriage, was married to Yildirım Bayezid in 1378 to establish a contact with the Ottomans.The last city which Sultan Walad wrote praise in his ghazals for was Aksaray, which was also one of the important cities of the Seljuks. Sultan Walad, who both praises and satirizes Aksaray in his ghazal, describes this city as a “mine of truth”, and he calls the city to the battlefield by saying “How much more persecution will you see from the black army!” to the fact that the Mongols took it as their center and threatened the Seljuks in Konya. In addition, the murder of Ruknaddin Kilicharslan (IV) who was the close disciple of Mawlana, his father, by the Mongols after an invitation to Aksaray, must have also affected Sultan Walad.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nuri ŞİMŞEKLER']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Nüsha
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/nusha/issue/70566/1099455
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2357584
