Makale Başlığı: TURKISH ADAPTATION OF THE CLIMATE CHANGE ANXIETY SCALE: A VALIDITY AND RELIABILITY STUDY
Özet: Objective: This research aimed to adapt the Climate Change Anxiety Scale into Turkish and to conduct a validity and reliability study. Materials and Methods: The sample of the study consists of 698 individuals over the age of 18 who live in Turkey and voluntarily agreed to participate in the research. Data related to the research were collected online via social media platforms using the "Personal Information Form" and the "Climate Change Anxiety Scale". For the adaptation study of the scale, its structural and language validity and reliability were examined. In line with the data obtained, Cronbach's alpha value was examined to test the internal consistency of the scale, and exploratory factor analysis and confirmatory factor analysis were performed for construct validity. Results: The original form of the scale is 5-point Likert type and consists of 13 items and 2 sub-factors. As a result of the analysis of the findings obtained from the sample in which the scale was applied in this study, it was seen that the scale exhibited a single factor structure. According to the results of the confirmatory factor analysis applied to test the construct validity (CFI=.969, NFI=.961, RSMEA=.075, GFI=.945), the goodness of fit of the single factor structure was found to be at an acceptable level and quite good. In this single factor structure, the Cronbach's alpha value for the total scale was found to be .947. Conclusion: In this study, it was determined that the Climate Change Anxiety Scale adapted to Turkish is a valid and reliable measurement tool to measure the climate change anxiety levels of individuals.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatih CEBECİ', 'Merve KARAMAN', 'Abdurrahman Ferhat ÖZTÜRK', 'Kivanç UZUN', 'Ozan ALTIN', 'Aylin ARICI', 'Taner ARTAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Ufkun Ötesi Bilim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/uobild/issue/71533/1129602
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2481704
