Makale Başlığı: THE INSEPARABILITY OF DISCOURSE IN THE INTERPRETATION OF RELIGION AND POLITICS
Özet: The everlasting values of political cultures are the facts of power and resistance in politics. According to cyclical developments, the ideals and values accepted by the government and the opposition may diverge. Religion is another factor that appears in politics at all times and has little variation according to time and place. Facts that are made up of people and have an impact on values are included in religious lifestyle and social practices. Many aspects of social life can be seen as the result of religious views shaped by politics. Politics, which Easton defines as the "distribution of values through authority," can be reinterpreted in the face of religious arguments and can even serve as a mediator. In these processes, oratory's power, as well as the orator himself/herself, appear to be a powerful force. Acceptances, which occur in religious activities and can be found in the past as well as the present, might show the situations that they wish to enter into politics, as well as their symbolic values. Many instances where politics is attempting to infiltrate might be seen as power clashes. The legal power, the authority, occasionally seeks to bolster its position by utilizing religion. Attempts to eliminate religion's social determinacy in democratic nations from a secular perspective have resulted in the operation of religion's remarkable position through discourse and perceptions. The major objective of discourse and language in contemporary times is the desired perception to be formed through cognitive processes. The goal of this study is to construct a framework for discourse power based on its use value in religion and politics, as well as an interpretation of discourse inseparability in the intertwining of religious and political discourses.
Yazar isimleri: ['Haluk YAMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Akademik Yaklaşımlar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ayd/issue/71018/1076145
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2263766
