Makale Başlığı: The Formation and Definition of the Concept of "Spritual Well-Being"
Özet: "Spiritual well-being" was coined in 1971 and has since become a popular concept in modern psychology studies. Multidimensional investigations covering the concept's structure, theoretical foundations, interaction areas, and development, on the other hand, have been limited. In response to this scarcity, the research aims to examine the concept of "spiritual well-being" from all of these perspectives. It also seeks to provide a new definition of "spiritual well-being." Another contribution of the study to the "spiritual well-being" literature is that it attempts to explain the framework and theoretical basis of the term. This study was mostly based on an analysis of relevant literature. Literature data on how the thought began and developed were gathered for this purpose. The semantical relationship between "well-being" and "spirituality" is investigated. Following that, the concept's content, areas of interaction, approaches, and theoretical foundations with which it is closely associated were defined as well as the concept's relationship with spirituality was stressed. Some works in the subject's literature have also been analytically evaluated, with a particular emphasis on their contributions to the enhanced relationship of "spiritual well-being" with other domains, as well as the conceptualization process of it. The research findings characterize spiritual well-being as the acquisition of well-being from spiritual areas to which individuals related. The contributions of spirituality to "well-being" underline the significance of "spiritual well-being" in the Psychology of Religion. "Spiritual well-being" is a concept used to determine the original reflections and good effects of these contributions on individuals, as well as to measure various types of "well-being."
Yazar isimleri: ['Hümeyra Nazlı TAN', 'Mualla YILDIZ']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Dini Araştırmalar
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/da/issue/73863/1175149
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2650259
