Makale Başlığı: Administrative Geography of Bingol Province
Özet: Administrative geography is a sub-discipline of the Department of Human and Economic Geography. Administrative geography studies to reveal the administrative, social, cultural and economic characteristics of any country or administrative unit. This information is also useful for different fields. The administrative structure of Turkey has been shaped largely on the basis of the pre-Republican administrative structure. Wilayah were made into provinces, and township into districts. Some of the sanjaks in the big provinces were separated and became independent provinces. In Turkey, changes in the administrative structure gained intensity in the 1930s and 1950s. Later, between 1989 and 1999, many districts and provinces were made and the number of provinces increased to 81. With the law numbered 6360 enacted in 2012, provinces with a population of more than 750,000 were taken into metropolitan municipality status and all village settlements were turned into neighborhoods. In this article, the administrative geography features of Bingöl province have been tried to be examined in relatively detail. In the province of Bingöl, there are 8 districts, 3 towns and 320 village administrative units and 818 hamlet settlements together with the central district. Again, a total of 11 municipal organizations, including 1 provincial center, 7 district centers and 3 towns, serve in the province. There are 68 neighborhoods in total in these administrative areas. Administrative organizations in the province of Bingöl serve a total population of 283.112 on an area of 8.003 km2. The effects of the geographical structure are clearly distinguished in the administrative division of the province of Bingöl and in the determination of the district boundaries. The compatibility of administrative structure and geographical features enables the public (infrastructure, superstructure) and private sector services to be delivered easily and efficiently. On the other hand, administrative functions play an important role in supporting the development of social, cultural, economic and security functions in settlements that are administrative centers, as well as contributing to employment.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Emin YAKUT', 'Mehmet Akif CEYLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Yönetim Akademisi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mana/issue/72441/1097007
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2346969
