Makale Başlığı: Muallim Naci's Approach of Translation and His Yâdigâr-ı Avnî (Review-Text)
Özet: According to a common belief, the post-Tanzimat period of Turkish literature is like a battlefield that witnessed the confrontation of opposite poles and those who tried to find a place for themselves between tradition and innovation. In this bipolar world reminiscent of mythological narratives, Muallim Nâci's role and image of "defender of the past", which is considered appropriate, derives its source largely from the settled opinions about him, not from his works. A more accurate portrait of Naci can only be revealed by evaluating his ideas and works. However, some of Nâci's works have not yet been translated into new letters, let alone evaluation. This study aims to transfer Muallim Nâci's work named Yâdigâr-ı Avnî into Latin letters as a contribution to the efforts to create new perspectives. In addition, this work will be examined from certain aspects and its Arabic-Persian parts will be translated into Turkish. Yâdigâr-ı Avnî was written in 1302/1886. This work consists of a memoir-like preface, an introductory chapter containing the biography of Hakîm Senâî, and the translation and commentary of fifteen couplets selected from the work called Hadîkatü'l-Hakîka. Nâci gave this name to his work as an expression of respect for the memory of the poet Avni Bey. The friendship between Muallim Nâci and Yenişehirli Avnî enabled this work to be written. In this study, the source of the friendship between the two poets was examined. In addition, Nâci's views on "translation", "innovation" and "imitation" were investigated. Then, information was given about the publication process of Yâdigâr-ı Avnî and the genre of the work was researched. Finally, the work was translated into Latin letters. There are some Arabic and Persian parts in Yâdigâr-ı Avnî that have not been translated. The translations of these parts are also made by us and are shown with footnotes.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Turcology Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/turcology/issue/73283/1196775
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2739864
