Makale Başlığı: Assesment of Physicians’ Attitudes Towards COVID-19 Vaccine
Özet: Objective: The aim of this study is to physicians attitudes towards the COVID-19 vaccine. Methods: Our research is a cross-sectional study, which was conducted between January 4th and February 26th, 2021. A Google Forms questionnaire was prepared according to the literature. The first part of the two-part questionnaire included the sociodemographic characteristics of the physicians and some variables thought to be related to COVID-19. In the second part, questions from the “Attitudes Towards COVID-19 Vaccine Scale (ATCVS)” were included. Multiple linear regression analysis with variables that were significant in univariate analysis was used for further analysis. Results: Three hundred fifteen (71.9%) of a total of 438 participants stated that they were assigned to units related to COVID-19 during the pandemic. With more than 10 years of work in the profession, physicians had a more positive attitude towards vaccination than those with 1 – 5 years’ experience. Most of the physicians reported that there were insufficient studies on these newly developed vaccines. Possible adverse effects, uncertainty about the efficacy and safety of the vaccine, and beliefs that people are not at risk for severe disease were prominent. Conclusions: Despite all the uncertainties about the efficacy, safety, and long-term adverse effects of newly developed COVID vaccines, it was determined that 79% of the physicians approached the vaccine positively. The most important reason for vaccine hesitation was the insufficient studies about COVID-19 vaccines.
Yazar isimleri: ['Feyza Nehir ÖZNUR MUZ', 'Muhammed Fatih ÖNSÜZ', 'Selma METİNTAS', 'Didem ARSLANTAS', 'Alaettin ÜNSAL', 'Didem OKTAR', 'Ezgi YÜCEL', 'Mine TEPETAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Clinical and Experimental Health Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/clinexphealthsci/issue/72731/1005495
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2012680
