Makale Başlığı: Examınatıon Of Teacher Candıdates' Opınıons On Global Problems
Özet: Purpose: The purpose of this research is to examine the views of teacher candidates towards global problems. The questions regarding qualitative research are as follows:What are your thoughts on global problems?Would you like to take part in projects aimed at solving global problems? What are your thoughts?Do you pay attention to whether the product is environmentally friendly or not? What are your thoughts?Are you sensitive to the problems experienced by people in different countries? What are your thoughts?What are your thoughts on the importance of Social Studies course in solving global problems?Design & Methodology: A qualitative research was carried out in this study, in which the views of social studies teacher candidates studying at the faculty of education on global problems will be revealed. Phenomenology design, one of the qualitative research designs, was used. Findings: Looking at the findings; In their thoughts on global problems, pre-service teachers stated that the source of the problem is human, it continues to increase day by day and it is reflected in every area of human life. Problems such as global climate change, terrorism, war, violence, environmental pollution, hunger and famine came to the fore among the problems mentioned. Majority of the candidates stated that they want to take part in projects aimed at solving problems. It can be said that the purchasing behavior of environmentally friendly products is relatively low. Candidates are very sensitive to the problems of people living in different countries. Implications & Suggestions: The research is not only limited to teacher candidates, but can also be applied to teachers and students in schools. By increasing the number of studies on social responsibility, an evaluation can be made from a broader perspective.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gözde GÜRBÜZ', 'Mesut AYDIN']
Yayın Yılı: 16 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: İnönü Üniversitesi Eğitim Bilimleri Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/inujgse/issue/73007/1165609
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2610553
