Makale Başlığı: SEMANTIC CHANGES FROM CONCRETE TO ABSTRACT IN TURKISH LOANWORDS IN ALBANIAN LANGUAGE
Özet: The Balkan people had the right to practice their language and religion freely during the half-millennium that passed under the domination of the Turkish language, and also, they sympathized with the religion and language of the Turks. While some Balkans chose to follow Islam as their religion, other ones, generally Orthodox Christians, also adopted some parts of the Islamic traditions and customs that they learned from the Turkish people, thus in a sense they incorporated them into their lives. Even though they have been free to use their own language, the influence of the Turkish has dominated their lives for various reasons such as: The new generations have seen a brighter future in Turkey, or the parents have sent their children for study in Turkey and Turkish language have been used in all of the official institutions. In fact, with the expansionist character of everyday and commercial language, Turkish words have found themselves extraordinary large spaces in all Balkan languages. We know that words do not stay as they are given. The borrowed words in a mother language sometimes operates independently from the language they are borrowed. The borrowed words exprerience changes in terms of taste and texture where it is pleased and necassary. There are also a considerable amount of Turkish words in the Albanian language. Although some of the words have been forgotten with the change of the official dominance and the change of the time in this century, some words have become so Albanian that they must be counted as the original materials of this language. Some words that have a concrete meaning in Turkish dictionaries gains an abstract meaning when they are placed in the Albanian dictionary. In this study, the topic of our analysis are some words that have a concrete meaning in the Turkish dictionary but become abstract ones by a semantic chaneg when they are entered the Albanian Language.Our study is based on the book of Lindita Latifi Xhanari Turqizmat dhe semantika e tyre në fjalorët e shqipes and the current Dictionary (Güncel Sözlük) from TDK.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sindi BİLİBASHİ', 'Fatma Sibel BAYARAKTAR']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Balkanistik Dil ve Edebiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/balkanistik/issue/70552/1020760
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2070190
