Makale Başlığı: Geri Çekildi:
                                                                        INVESTIGATION OF BULLYING AND CYBERBULLYING BEHAVIORS OF DIFFERENT BRANCHES IN TERMS OF SOME VARIABLES
Özet: The purpose of this research is to examine the cyberbullying behaviors of different sports spectators. For this purpose, relational screening model was used in the study. In addition, due to the fact that due diligence will be made, the study has a descriptive nature. While the universe of the research consists of sports spectators, the sample consists of 1029 participants who are randomly selected and who are sports spectators in different branches. The personal information form developed by the researcher and the verbal bullying, physical bullying and cyber bullying behavior scale of sports spectators developed by Karaca (2019) were used as data collection tools in the research. Descriptive analysis, Independent Simple T-test and One Way ANOVA tests were used in the analysis of the data. According to the results of the research, bullying and cyberbullying levels of male audience members were found to be higher than female audiences. Looking at the branches, it was seen that the bullying and cyberbullying levels of football spectators were higher than other branches. It has been determined that as the age increases, the level of bullying and cyberbullying decreases as the income level increases and the level of education increases, and the bullying and cyberbullying levels of the audience members of the Fan Association are higher. In addition, it was concluded that the way of watching the match did not affect the level of bullying and cyberbullying.
Yazar isimleri: ['Caner CENGİZ', 'Mehmet AYDOĞAN', 'Mert Mazhar ERDURAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: SPORMETRE Beden Eğitimi ve Spor Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/spormetre/issue/72637/1165347
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2609448
