Makale Başlığı: Existential reflections in İlhami Emin's poems
Özet: İlhami Emin, a poet living in the Rumelias, has brought great works to Turkish. He is a versatile artist. He is a poet, a journalist, a translator, a radio programmer and a man of culture who serves as one of the top officials of the state. İlhami Emin met multiple cultures and languages at an early age. He was able to cope with the consequences of the difficult policies of the place where he lived. His personality is powered by his art. In addition to having different pronunciation and meaning features in his poems, there is also a philosophical depth. Existential philosophy; He wants to give meaning to the universe, man and the existence of the individual. İlhami Emin wants this too. He keeps the faith he inherited from his family as a legacy. He supports Islam with art and philosophy while living according to the Melami understanding. In most of his poems, similar questions and determinations with the philosophy of existence draw attention. Of course, these observations do not mean that İlhami Emin is a strict existentialist; but it proves that he knows the existential thought that guides many thought systems. İlhami Emin was together with the existentialist philosopher Jean Paul Sartre; traces of existential philosophy are felt in his poems. Sartre and especially Kierkegaard say that the concept of faith is important for people to be individuals. İlhami Emin thinks the same way. There is a questioning, questioning, thinking and comparing approach in his poems. Movement, change, transformation, the idea of nature, existence, absence, love, peace, universality are the values he often mentions. Melâmîs also attach importance to these values, which are reflected in Islamic culture. There is not a single subject or a single value in all the poems of the poet. He skillfully used many different subjects and the questioning of existence was repeated.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1190309
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2713325
