Makale Başlığı: Türk Mutfak Kültüründe Çorba ve Coğrafi İşaretli Çorbalar Üzerine Bir Değerlendirme
Özet: Soup; It has an important place in Turkish cuisine with its nutritious feature, local variety and taste. Each region and province has its own soup types. These soups, which appeal to all age groups, are one of the indispensable foods of the tables for breakfast, lunch and dinner. The main purpose of this research is to identify the soups with geographically indicated and in the application process of geographical indication in Turkey and to describe the current situation. Another aim of the research is to draw attention to the importance of geographical indication. The research data were obtained from the "geographic indication and traditional product name statistics" of the Turkish Patent and Trademark Office on June 15, 2021, using the document review technique within the scope of the qualitative research method. Research data were analyzed and interpreted using descriptive analysis technique. The findings reveal that there are 18 soups with geographical indications, and 35 soups whose geographical indication evaluation process is ongoing. One of the soups with geographical indications was registered with the name of origin, one with the traditional product name, and 16 with the indication of origin. All of the soups, whose application process is still in progress, have applied with the indication of origin. The first geographically indicated soup was registered in 2010. As of 2020, there has been a significant increase in the number of soups with geographical indications and applications for geographical indications. This situation can be interpreted as a sign of increasing awareness about geographical indication in recent years.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zafer ÖZBEY', 'Hasan KÖŞKER']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2021
Dergi ismi: Gastroia: Journal of Gastronomy And Travel Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gastoria/issue/65610/956548
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1839734
