Makale Başlığı: A RESEARCH ON THE WEBSITES OF MUNICIPALITIES IN THE CONTEXT OF DESTINATION IMAGE
Özet: Internet, new media and digital communication channels offer many new opportunities to corporations. Corporate websites are at the forefront of these opportunities. Corporate websites, which offer the opportunity to create rich content such as reaching large audiences, providing information flow, promoting the institution, creating a positive image, promoting and raising awareness, are an important tool of digital communication strategies today. Websites, which offer great opportunities in terms of promotion and information, are of great importance especially in terms of their contribution to the promotion and image of a destination. In this study, it was aimed to examine the websites of local municipalities in Zonguldak province and to determine whether these websites have the necessary content to contribute to the destination image. In addition, it is another aim of the study to reveal whether these municipality websites contain the components that should be found in a corporate website in the context of the destination image. In this context, the websites of 8 local municipalities, including 1 province and 7 districts in Zonguldak destination, were evaluated by content analysis method, based on the dates between 1-28 February 2022. As a result of the data obtained, it has been concluded that the contribution of the relevant municipality websites to the destination image is limited and the content related to the destination on the websites is insufficient. In addition, it was concluded that the municipalities have not used their websites effectively in the context of the destination image and the sites have been deficient in terms of hosting institutional components. In the light of these results and evaluations, suggestions have been made to present them to the municipalities. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet KOÇYİĞİT', 'Gülcan DEMİRAL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Gümüşhane Üniversitesi İletişim Fakültesi Elektronik Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/e-gifder/issue/72904/1104050
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2376675
