Makale Başlığı: Adolescence and Its Basic Problems in Terms of Developmental Psychology and Psychology of Religion
Özet: This study deals with adolescence in terms of development and religious psychology. In the study adolescence period was dealt with; in terms of physical, sexual, emotional, social, cognitive, moral and religious development. It aims to contribute to the work parents and teachers do, who support adolescents, by revealing the problems experienced by adolescents with the method of literature review concerning their developmental period. Puberty; it is the transition phase from childhood to adulthood, which includes different developments and changes. This period, in which development and change is intense, can be characterized as a period of depression and crisis due to its structure.  While the adolescent tries to adapt to his changing physical structure, he/she also has to adapt to his/her social environment.  In this phase, he/she may feel “loneliness" and "alienation" regarding the problems he/she has experienced. Today's adolescents are faced with biological, psychological and social problems as well as the problems of stepping into in the virtual world. Adolescence is a phase in which emotional turmoil and mental turmoil are experienced intensely. While the adolescent who is to construct identity struggles to be himself/herself, he/she seeks the answer to the question “who am I?”.  Adolescent in search of identity; face conflicting role expectations and multiple preferences. While trying to separate from his/her family in an effort to become an individual, the adolescent sometimes has problems with his/her family. Today's adolescents live in a world where everything is consumed in the age of speed and pleasure, where people only exist consuming, where virtuality and reality are intertwined. Today, in a period when access to information is as easy as pushing a button, adolescents experience the problem of choosing and internalizing the truth, not accessing information, while forming their philosophy of life. Evaluating the life goals of adolescents only with their academic success, wears out the adolescent psychologically who take exams nonstop one after another. Parents' directing the adolescent to areas that he/she doesn’t fancy, expecting more tasks and achievements from the adolescent, neglecting him/her emotionally, criticizing him/her, and comparing him/her with others affect their relationships negatively. Problems experienced in adolescence may be the continuation of problems in childhood. Behind every adolescent, there is a legacy formed in childhood, which also means "the future". In the literature review conducted in this study, it has been determined that the main problems experienced by adolescents are identity crisis, feelings of guilt and sinfulness due to sexual conflicts, success motivation and inhibition, orientation for independence and conflict with parents, virtual addictions.
Yazar isimleri: ['Asude COŞKUNSEVER']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Din Psikolojisi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tdpd/issue/70822/1110874
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2404848
