Makale Başlığı: Examining Teachers’ Views on The Role of Early Literacy Skills on Mathematics Skills in Early Childhood
Özet: In the study, it has been aimed to reveal the views of preschool teachers about the role of children's early literacy skills on mathematics skills. In this context, preschool teachers' mathematics teaching in early childhood, their responsibilities in providing children with mathematical skills, their efforts to support children's mathematical skills, the effects of activities other than mathematics on supporting children's mathematical skills, their competencies in supporting mathematics and early literacy skills, and their views on the role of  early literacy activities in supporting children's mathematical skills has been tried to determine. Focus group interview, one of the qualitative research methods, has been used in the study. The study group consists of 8 female preschool teachers working in kindergartens affiliated to Bilecik Provincial Directorate of National Education. The interview has been held in a 60-minute session under the chairmanship of the moderator and accompanied by an observer. Content analysis approach has been used in the evaluation of the data. As a result of the research, the idea that preschool teachers' early literacy skills support children's math skills has emerged. In addition, teachers have emphasized that family and environment have a key role in children's acquisition of these skills. However, it has been determined that preschool teachers do not have sufficient knowledge about early literacy skills, the scope of these activities and their integration with mathematics and other activities. It has been determined that although preschool teachers want to integrate early literacy activities and mathematics activities, they cannot fully perform them in practice due to this inadequacy.
Yazar isimleri: ['Tuba MUMCU', 'Yasemin AYDOĞAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Bilecik Şeyh Edebali Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bseusbed/issue/68660/1022218
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2076000
