Makale Başlığı: WORKS OF CENGIZ DAGCI AND UNWRITTEN HISTORY
Özet: In the works of Cengiz Dagci, the researchers of the Turkish and human history are waiting for thefacts that have not been written yet. This expectation concerns the writers and researchers of othercountries, especially Turks. People generally prefer easily accessible information in terms of theirnature. However, the truth puzzle opens only by serious researchers and attentive readers. CengizDagci mentions the destruction of a nation in his works. When each piece is handled on its own, it istold that the genocide of the Crimean Turks step by step in his works. In addition, there are practicesof the ruthless Soviet administration. Not just this administration, the catastrophes brought by theWorld War II are also tried to be introduced to the reader. The massacres of Germans, prisoners ofwar, the legions of Turkestan, and the tragedy of the desperate Turkish people are seen. In his worksabout the Turkestan legions which have not yet been exactly examined in Turkey; we read dozens ofexamples linked to the historical and lived reality.Cengiz Dagci has not left a collection of literary works alone. At the same time, he has given roadmaps of the subjects they would investigate for Turkish historians. Scientists searching for archives ofthese works will face history. Thus, they will see the facts of pain that are covered with dust, mud andblood clot on top of history. Perhaps it is not the job that every researcher or writer would dare to opentheir eyes and pens to the facts that the hearts cannot stand. However, sooner or later, fearless peoplewill seek what Cengiz Dagci tells in documents that the Soviet, German and many other states haveleft for those years.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 17 Mart 2020
Dergi ismi: Türk Dünyası Uygulama ve Araştırma Merkezi Yakın Tarih Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yakintarih/issue/54574/743944
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1123113
