Makale Başlığı: The Question of “The Return of the Classical”
Özet: In this paper, the discourse of “the return of the classical”, which shines out as a nostalgic discourse in response to modernism in theological circles in the Islamic world, is examined. To this end, first of all, it is to investigate what kind of meaning the concept of classical has in the context of tradition. The concept of classical is sometimes used to describe a historical period, sometimes a school and a doctrine, and often texts belonging to ancient religious disciplines. Today, two contradictory approaches to classical texts draw attention: Classicist and historicist approaches. The classical approach tries to freeze the meaning of the text, which it assumes to be valid in a period of history, and to bring it to the present. In this sense, the classical texts of the Islamic civilization can be carried to the present and comprehended by processes such as translation, and critical edition. On the other hand, the historicist approach abstracts the text from its traditional dimension and accepts it as a product of false consciousness. In this respect, the classical approach grasps tradition in the limited sense of "text tradition", which has exhausted its function in history. Thus, a classical text is considered to have an ultimate, universal, metaphysical, and "worldless" meaning. On the other hand, the historicist approach ignores both traditions as praxis and tradition as text tradition. This leads to the design of an invalid meaning for the classical text to the extent that it is perspectivist, reductionist and anachronistic. This paper discusses why these two approaches cannot be successful in maintaining both the historical meaning of a classical text and the dynamism of the tradition through which the classics keep alive.
Yazar isimleri: ['M. Nurullah TURAN']
Yayın Yılı: 17 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Gümüşhane Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gifad/issue/71277/1114839
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2420350
