Makale Başlığı: NEW ERA IN AGE DISCRIMINATION: EPIDEMIC STIGMA
Özet: This study deals with the social problems experienced by the elderly, who are trying to become a part of the active population with active aging by developing social policies recently, due to the discrimination they are exposed to during the Covid-19 epidemic. The aim of the study is to draw attention to the discrimination that the elderly, who are most affected by the changes in social relations and social structure, and who are among the fragile population, in addition to the problems they have experienced, through stigmatization with the epidemic process. The New Type Corona Virus (Covid -19), which has reached global dimensions as of March 2020, has caused serious measures to be taken as a disease with a high risk of transmission. The devastating effects of the disease for vulnerable groups have led to wider measures being taken on risky groups. In this process, the measures taken to protect chronic patients and individuals over the age of 65 were given wide coverage both in the visual media and in the social media. The explanations that caused the curfew of the elderly to be perceived as a quarantine process, in particular, caused the elderly to experience a serious loss of status with modernization, and to face a new discrimination. While the precautions were taken to protect the vulnerable risk groups, in many countries of the world, the source of the disease was seen as the elderly due to these measures of the mainstream media and social media, news and posts that caused the perception that the epidemic was spreading through the elderly. Age discrimination (ageism), perpetrated by the active population (15-64) against the elderly, gained another dimension during the epidemic and turned into an epidemic stigma. The news about the epidemic process in the mainstream media was expressed with the measures taken on the elderly population, the deaths caused by the epidemic were explained over the age variable, and therefore the measures to be taken regarding the epidemic and the Covid-19 agenda were carried out over the elderly. Sharing through social media, which is one of the important tools of popular entertainment culture, showed people aged 65 and over about the course of the epidemic and exacerbated ageism. The disadvantaged situation of the elderly, who are struggling to exist with successful aging initiatives in the active population, due to the increasing problems with aging, has reached striking dimensions with the perception formed during the epidemic process and has caused images that hurt the conscience with many negative examples. In this context, in the case of an epidemic due to the spread of a contagious disease against the elderly, the stigma of age-based (according to their perceptible social characteristics) differentiation or discrimination and the resulting epidemic stigma (the cause of the epidemic, the stigma, trace) process through the epidemic is discussed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nurullah SELÇUK']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Anadolu Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ulasbid/issue/70080/1129322
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2480538
