Makale Başlığı: Anamnestic prediction of bucket handle compared to other tear patterns of the medial meniscus in stable knees
Özet: Objective: Differentiation of bucket handle from other tear types of the meniscus is imperative for early intervention. The aim of this study was to analyze and compare the preoperative anamnestic details between patients with an arthroscopic diagnosis of bucket handle and other tear patterns of the medial meniscus in stable knees. Methods: Two groups of medial meniscal tears were compared (N=204). The study group included 65 patients with an arthroscopic diagnosis of bucket handle tear and the control group included 139 patients with non-bucket handle tear patterns. The preoperative clinical assessments of the two groups were analyzed retrospectively. Anamnestic prediction for the diagnosis of a bucket handle tear was based upon various medical history parameters. Multivariate logistic regression was carried out to identify independent anamnestic factors for predicting isolated bucket handle tears of the medial meniscus compared to non-bucket handle tears.  Results: Analysis of the multivariate logistic regression yielded 3 statistically significant independent anamnestic risk factors for predicting isolated bucket handle tears of the medial meniscus: male gender (OR, 9.7; 95% CI, 1.1 - 37.6), locking events (OR, 4.6; 95% CI, 1.8 - 11.3) and pain in extension (OR, 6.9; 95% CI, 2.5 - 23.7). Other preoperative variables such as age, BMI, activity level, comorbidities, duration of symptoms, pain location, preceding injury and its mechanism had no significant effect on tear pattern.  Conclusions: Preoperative strong clues for bucket handle tears of the medial meniscus in stable knees are male gender, locking events and limitation in extension. DOI: 10.3944/AOTT.2016.16.0012This abstract belongs to the un-edited version of the article and is only for informative purposes. Published version may differ from the current version.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 3 Haziran 2016
Dergi ismi: Acta Orthopaedica et Traumatologica Turcica
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aott/issue/18258/192616
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/user/project/new
