Makale Başlığı: Good Death Perception in End-of-Life Care: Nursing Students Experience
Özet: Background: One of the main goals of end-of-life care, which is defined as an approach that improves the quality of life of patients and their families in life-threatening diseases, is good death. Objectives: The sudy was carried out to determine the views of postgraduate nursing students working in end-of-life care on the perception of good death. Methods: The study was designed in qualitative type. Data were collected online through focus group interview method with 17 postgraduate nursing students actively working in end-of-life care between 10 October and 10 November 2020. In order to collect the data of the research, an introductory information form containing the socio-demographic characteristics of the students and a semi-structured interview form were used. Results: In the study, it was determined that the average age of postgraduate nursing students was 27.94 ± 3.39, 59% of them were women and the professional experience was five and a half years. All of the students stated that they did not receive vocational training on the concept of good death. Postgraduate nursing students indicated that although they are affected by the death of young patients, they become desensitized as their professional experience increases. Students identified good death; painless, saying goodbye to their loved ones until the last moment, avoiding unnecessary medical intervention, being in the preferred place and not creating a burden of care. Conclusion: As a result of the study, students described good death; painless, sayinggoodbye to their loved ones until the last moment, avoiding unnecessary medical intervention, being in the preferred place and not creating a burden of care, but it was determined that nurse numbers in the clinics and levels of knowledge were insufficient to achieve a good death. It can be recommended to integrate the courses that include the principles of good death into the nursing syllabus and to follow empowering inhouse policies so that nurses can achieve good death in clinics. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Pınar ZORBA BAHÇELİ', 'Derya ÇINAR', 'Nazan AKÇA']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Hemşirelik Fakültesi Elektronik Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/deuhfed/issue/71208/987622
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1944022
