Makale Başlığı: GERTRUD BÄUMER’S TRAVEL TO ISTANBUL (1918) AND THE OTTOMAN WOMEN’S MOVEMENT
Özet: The demands for freedom and reform that marked the last period of the Ottoman Empire, which started with the Second Constitutional Monarchy in 1908, also contributed positively to the Ottoman women's movement and accelerated the developments in this field. Another prominent development of this period is the 1912-1913 Balkan Wars, First World War of 1914-1918 and War of Independence (1919-1922) that followed. As women's role in social life increased under war conditions, the women's movement gained strength. Germany, especially since the last quarter of the 19th century, made the Ottoman Empire's policies of influence more systematic. Initiatives, that initiated towards the end of Chancellor Otto von Bismarck's term began in 1888. It became state policy with Wilhelm's ascension to the German throne. Germany, had the expertise and capital to meet the modernization demands of Abdulhamid the Second. This situation increased the cooperation between the two empires. Cooperation caused Germany to appear as a rival to the imperialist states of the period, especially England and France. Relations with Germany, which is one of the focal points of studies related to the last period of the Ottoman Empire, have been studied mostly from military and economic perspectives. However, the alliance established with Germany during the First World War has led to important developments in areas such as culture and education. Germany used cultural activities as a tool that would help its relations with the Ottoman Empire to be long-term and permanent. Germany carried out some activities for the modernization of education in the Ottoman Empire as an extension of its cultural policy. Therefore, in the field of education, where the women's movement was strongest, Germany and the Ottoman women's movement had a common ground. The Committee of Union and Progress took over the power after the Balkan Wars. In the last period of the Ottoman Empire, women became more visible in social life and education.The struggle for women's rights in Europe goes back much further. The women's movement in Germany dates back to the first quarter of the 19th century. The struggle for the right to education is one of these areas. Almanya’da öğretmenler kadın hareketinde öne çıkan meslek koludur. Therefore, Germany was closely interested in the future of Turkish women in terms of Ottoman cultural policies.In the last year of the war, Dr. Gertrud Bäumer's speech (Türkische Frauenbewegung) is an example of German cultural policy. Since Bäumer's relationship with liberals in Germany who support German imperialist policy such as Ernst Jäckh and Friedrich Naumann also shows a political aspect of his Istanbul trip. Especially, Ernst Jäckh is the first person to carry out cultural cooperation between the Ottoman State and Germany. He came to Istanbul many times during the war and wrote various books about the future of the Ottoman Empire. This trip also sheds light on the ideological dimension of German imperialism.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bilge KARBİ']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Genel Türk Tarihi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gttad/issue/71320/1129154
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2479910
