Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of the Potentiality of Wood and Processing Dust as Sustainable Raw Materials for 3 Dimensional (3D) Printers
Özet: Three-Dimensional (3D) printing technology is constantly evolving. Recently, several alternative studies are being conducted for the materials used in 3D printers with the growth of technology in additive manufacturing. On the other hand, different materials for different applications could be produced by means of 3D printers. While focusing the materials that are widely used today are evaluated in terms of their potential of sustainability and high costs, several studies addressing the possibilities of alternative and additive material utilization possibilities are being carried out. As an alternative to the mentioned materials which are commonly used, it is thought that several waste materials can be used and that the utilization of these materials provides a contribution to the circular economy as well as the cost-effective production. In this study, two materials which have widespread industrial scale were evaluated for 3D printing applications; wood material that can be used as an additive or a filament in 3D printers and sawdust as a waste material obtained from production processes. Sawdust, which is advantageous in terms of being a sustainable material, also has the potential to be used as an additive in printers. It was observed that several creative designs for different areas of use have been made using sawdust material and the experiments have been evaluated. According to the results of the evaluated studies, the utilization areas of the materials were assessed. As a result of this study, design experiments of wood and sawdust as alternative materials in 3D printing applications and the utilization possibilities of the manufactured objects were discussed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Özgür CENGİZ', 'Şükriye AKTEPE']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Avrupa Bilim ve Teknoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ejosat/issue/71415/1105071
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2380548
