Makale Başlığı: The study of the first epic Turkish theater play titled Keşanlı Ali Destanı in the context of cultural displacement
Özet: This study aims to deal with Keşanlı Ali Destanı (1964) by Haldun Taner which is considered as the first epic Turkish theater play and its English translation titled The Ballad of Ali of Keshan (1967/1976) in the context of transcultural transfer and translation processes. The play is a theater phenomenon in the Turkish cultural system adding to traditional genres an innovative quality. The play is described as the product of an intercultural encounter and the combination of different semiotic systems as a result of its relationship with the Brechtian epic theatre. It was also translated to several languages and staged in many countries around the world, thus once again becoming the subject of a multi-faceted transcultural movement. The study primarily focuses on the transcultural movement of displacement in the context of cultural transfer. Itamar Even-Zohar’s polysystem theory and concept of cultural repertoire are considered as the theoretical account of the discussion on the position of the play in the Turkish polysystem. Secondarily, the play is handled in the context of intersemiotic translation of Roman Jakobson, as it is the first example of the epic theater genre in Turkish polysystem. The success of the play, which has already incorporated the transmutation of the elements of epic theater through intersemiotic translation, made it leap to the world stage through interlingual translation processes. The descriptive study carried out on its English translation reveals that the transformation the play has been subject to through interlingual translation, this time located in a different linguistic system, with regard to the statements enunciated by the Translator’s Voice. The multi-staged study reveals the transcultural displacement and multifaceted translation adventure of the play.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1192528
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2722533
