Makale Başlığı: Bibliometric Analysis of The Olympic Games and Doping Research
Özet: Doping controls are carried out in all international mega sports organizations such as the Olympic Games to determine the use of doping. Prevention of doping use is carried out by the "Anti-doping Organization", WADA, which has an international participation structure. However, issues such as use of doping, doping agents, and using methods attract the attention of researchers. The research aims to analyze all scientific publications between 1980 and 2021 and to make a holistic analysis on doping using data obtained within the scope of the study, information graphics and explanatory bibliometric networks were created. This research is a kind of qualitative research method conducted to determine the researches between the Olympics and doping studies. According to the results, most used keywords were found to be "doping", "Olympic Games" and "doping control". There are a total of 96 journals evaluated within the scope of our study. “British Journal of Sports Medicine”, “Deutsche Zeitschrift Für Sportmedizin” and “International Journal of The History of Sport” are most cited journals. Top publishing institutes are “University of Western Australia”, “German Sport University Cologne” and “National and Kapodistrian University of Athens”. Finally, and in turn, top broadcasting countries are USA, United Kingdom, Germany, Australia, and Switzerland. According to the results of the research, most of the research on doping focuses on chemical analysis of substances used as doping. It may be useful to conduct research on the physical, social and moral reasons and possible legal consequences of doping use and its effect on sports.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa Ertan TABUK']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Disabilities Sports and Health Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijdshs/issue/69962/1093414
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2332616
