Makale Başlığı: TURKEY-UZBEKISTAN RELATIONS: STRATEGIC COOPERATION AND PARTNERSHIP
Özet: With its strategic location, the Central Asian region occupies an important place in Turkish foreign policy. The historical and cultural ties between Turkey and the Central Asian countries further increase the importance of this region. Located in the heart of Central Asia, Uzbekistan has a rich historical and cultural background. The versatile and multidimensional foreign policy pursued by President Shavkat Mirziyoyev has further increased Uzbekistan's importance on a regional and global scale and opened up new opportunities for cooperation. Uzbekistan has become a decisive actor in Turkey's Central Asian policies, especially in recent years. Turkey generally prioritizes a foreign policy strategy towards Central Asia that focuses on regional stability and prosperity.  In this context, Uzbekistan's multi-dimensional foreign policy in recent years is quite compatible with Turkey's strategy towards the region. Both Turkey and Uzbekistan have common interests in maintaining and promoting stability in Central Asia. The article analyzes the main directions of development of bilateral relations between Turkey and Uzbekistan. Bilateral relations, which have historically had their ups and downs, have recently gained a strong and constructive functionality. The importance of this functionality and momentum is particularly emphasized in the paper. It is obvious that the strategic cooperation and partnership between the two countries will contribute significantly to regional stability. Moreover, the establishment of high-level consultation mechanisms and the effective use of these mechanisms allow for the institutionalization of bilateral relations.
Yazar isimleri: ['Halit HAMZAOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Toplumsal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/toplumsalbilimler/issue/72874/1144373
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2540637
