Makale Başlığı: Zaydiyya as a Political Actor in Ottoman-Yemen Relations -A Reading on Mehmed Memduh and Miftah Yemen-
Özet: It is seen that a sect-based religious-social structure has formed among Muslims since the early periods of Islamic history and sects have become a defining part of Muslim identity. The sects, which were shaped around religious problems at the beginning, have become controversial since they have gained different social dimensions over time. Since the 3./9. century, sects have sought to establish a state by turning into a political movement rather than being an individual or social choice in understanding and living religion. The subject discussed in this article is the determination and evaluation of the place of Zaydiyya as a sect in the shaping of Ottoman-Yemen relations. The subject will be limited to Mehmed Memduh’s work Miftah Yemen. The reason for limiting the subject in this way is that Mehmed Memduh looks at the issue from political, sociological and economic perspectives in his work and his knowledge of the historical and religious background of the subject. It is understood from his works that he had detailed information about the geography of Yemen, the history of Islam, Shia and Zaydis. When we look at his two existing works on Yemen, it is seen that Memduh, who gives information about the geography of Yemen, the religious situation of the pre-Islamic region and the process of Islamization, draws attention to the religious and social structure of the region, and especially focuses on the sect factor as well as geographical and economic reasons. Zaydiyya has been constantly claiming and striving for power in this region. Zaydiyya, which emerged as a political movement to seize power in 122/740, has continued, as a requirement of their theory of imamate, its existence in its own state structure since Yahya b. Hussein’s departure to Yemen in 280/893. Zaydis declared their dominance at every opportunity after the Ottoman state took Yemen under its administration. On the other hand, the Ottoman state has been in an effort to establish dominance in Yemen for many centuries. However, it is not possible to say that Yemen, especially North Yemen, came under Ottoman rule. It is seen that the sectarian element has an important place among the factors determining the process in Ottoman-Yemen relations. The aim of this study is to clarify the position of Zaydiyya as a sect in Ottoman-Yemen relations. This study will contribute to the understanding of whether sects take place as a political element in international relations and social life or how they play a political role. Most of the studies carried out in the field of Islamic sects so far are on the determination of the historical background and teachings of the sects. Considering the globalization process, we think that it is appropriate and necessary to focus on the political, cultural and folkloric dimensions of sects today. The final result aimed in such studies is to establish the theoretical framework of the place of sects as a political actor in social life and international relations, with the support of the data to be obtained from other studies. Studies on Ottoman-Yemen relations show that the subject is mostly discussed in terms of economics and political science. In terms of our subject, it does not seem possible to say that there are enough studies on both Zaydiyya and other sects. We are of the opinion that sects should be considered as a political, sociological and historical phenomenon as well as being a creed differentiation. Our claim here is that sects take place as a political actor in international or social relations as well as their religious positions. In this study, the subject will be tried to be handled with a descriptive method, away from a sectarian (exclusionary) approach. Based on Miftah Yemen, this study shows us that three factors were effective in shaping Ottoman-Yemen relations. The first is geographical reasons. The second is the inaccurate policies of the Ottoman state and the wrong practices of the officials working in the region. The third is the sect factor. In line with our foresight, the Zeydiyya, a political sect, did not want to be under the rule of the Ottoman State, both as a requirement of their faith and in order not to lose their opportunity to be in power in the region. It can be said that the attitude of Zaydiyya was decisive in shaping the Ottoman-Yemen relations.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yusuf GÖKALP']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Hitit İlahiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/hid/issue/70613/1074268
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2256295
