Makale Başlığı: Views of Sixth Grade Students on the Effect of  Illustrations on Their Understanding of The Unit “Human and Environment”
Özet: The purpose of the study is to investigate the views of sixth grade students about the effect of illustrations on their understanding of the unit “human and environment”. The descriptive model was used in the study, as it was intended to reveal the views of the participants about the effect of illustrations in an accurate, in-depth and sensitive way in understanding the unit of human and environment. A total of 30 sixth grade students, 11 girls and 19 boys, participated in the study. The data of the study were obtained using an opinion form with five open-ended questions and four illustrations prepared by taking expert opinion. Before applying the data collection tool, a 10-15 minute presentation was made to the study group about the illustrations that were considered to be used in the study. The answers given by the students by writing to the first four of the open-ended questions, their explanations and the visuals they drew for the answer to the fifth question were examined and grouped according to their content, similarities and closeness. The grouped answers and visuals, explanations about the answers, the total numbers and percentages of male and female students who wrote the answers and drew the images were transferred to the relevant tables in different columns. At the end of each table, necessary comments and explanations were made about the data it contains. The students' opinions revealed in the study provided important findings about the effects of illustrations. Based on the findings, it can be argued that illustrations can have positive effects such as motivation for students, ensuring the permanence of what has been learned or knowledge, acting more sensitively for a livable environment, and conducting some activities voluntarily.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 25 Eylül 2021
Dergi ismi: Kesit Akademi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kesitakademi/issue/65705/1019325
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2064472
