Makale Başlığı: Movie Theaters’ Social Media Use During COVID-19 Pandemic: The Case of Beyoğlu Movie Theater
Özet: Movie theaters were closed down during the COVID-19 pandemic leaving them with no way ofcommunicating face-to-face with their target audiences and, more importantly, they lost an importantsource of revenue. Social media became one of the most important tools used by movie theaters tocommunicate with their target audiences during the pandemic. In this regard, this study seeks answers tothe research problem: “Does social media provide new opportunities for independent movie theaters tocontinue their activities?” Accordingly, this article analyzes how movie theaters used social media duringthe COVID-19 pandemic, through the example of Beyoğlu Movie Theater’s use of Twitter. Beyoğlu MovieTheater was sampled since it is an independent movie theater, which has the largest number of followerson Twitter in Turkey. In terms of methodology, this article employs a descriptive analysis and a contentanalysis to examine 794 tweets and retweets shared by Beyoğlu Movie Theater between January 1, 2020and December 31, 2020. The topic codes identified in the Tweets have been classified under 26 differentcategories. As an outcome, it was revealed that the tweets by Beyoğlu Movie Theater underwent a majortransformation. The use of social media evolved from promoting movie showtimes and selling ticketsbefore the pandemic into a form that focuses on maintaining the connection with audiences and asking themfor material support during the pandemic. Finally, this article concludes that Beyoğlu Movie Theater’suse of social media during the pandemic can be read as an example of participatory culture expressed byJenkins, in contrast to passive media audience.
Yazar isimleri: ['Özgü YOLCU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye İletişim Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/turcom/issue/68746/934664
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1758398
