Makale Başlığı: Some Comparative Findings from Meddah to Novel About the Concept of Digression
Özet: The subject of the article is on the use of "digression" in fıctıonal literary products. Digressions are sentences in which the narrator or the author pauses the text from time to time and conveys his thoughts, comments, feelings or criticisms to the listener/reader on a wide variety of topics. The purpose of these phrases, which increase the charm of the narrative, is to educate people by transferring culture, thus creating a society with close ties around the same values. In this article, firstly, evaluations that can be added to the existing literature on the digression are made. Then, the digressions in the meddah narratives and the digressions in the novel genre are compared. Since literary works take their inspiration and subject from society, they develop and transform by adapting to the new social order. When we examinated the fıctıonal narratıves of the anatolıan turks from central asıan to the present, we can show the epic, the Islamic epic, the folk tale, the meditative narrative and the novel. Among these genres, except the novel, the others are the products of the oral performance environment. In this context, first ten digressions from a narrative of Meddah Behçet Mahir were taken and contextually evaluated. Then, the first ten digressions of the novels Felatun Bey ve Rakım Efendi, Taaşşuk-ı Talat ve Fitnat, İntibah, which are some of the first examples of the novel genre, were determined and a content examination was made. The use of digression in novel is seen count as a technical flaw. In the study, the subject of why digressions are used in the examined novels is discussed by comparing it with the narrative of meddah, which is the performance texts, and the detected results are stated.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet DAĞLI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: İçtimaiyat
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ictimaiyat/issue/72966/1116715
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2427967
