Makale Başlığı: Grafik Tasarım Eğitiminde Yaratıcılığın  Süreç İçerisindeki Önemi
Özet: Today, education instutition hasproblem for social and personal awareness, attending to life with artproduction at in this world (Unver 2004: 157). when we look from largeperspective for examining design happen, innovation concept is seen. Innovationis a positive and special progress. It provides to be systems’ aim witheffectively. Innovation involves invention, discovery, researching, developingand design levels. Innovation comes out resulting of conscious experts’ workingwith plan and systematic organise and also it is an event although it dependson economy, it has technic, intellectual, logical sides and it is an event forcreate social and economical benefits. Design in innovation progress starts afterdefining of real needs, determining technologic and scientific principle anddata. In additionally it is an activity to give alternative solving in businessequipment opportunity. Design is found in business but after designs’ modelledand tested, innovations’ being and its sound are proved and new product isseen. Innovation reasons and targets are environment condition, scientificdiscovery, technologic developments, competition, consumer demands, andfashion, economic ways, legal regulations, moral- traditional beliefs andtime(Genişel 1996: 54). Design process which is determination, research andlearning process, generally it is being with analyze, synthesis and evaluationlevel. (Gelazer 1999:26). Analyze is a level for last design arrangement andenvironment for all progress (Bayazıt 1994:68). Besides typography, visualperception, illustration, design principle and equipment, printing technique,design which is produced on computer for graphic design cause design clutterfor visual. So graphic designer can be not only making to carry out but alsothey can be thinking, determining and managing person. Same with the original,copying work causes sectors’ falling and also creativity which is a weapon ofadvertisement, may annihilate. It is thought. Moreover it is importantlythought on plagiarism and effect of originality from owner, originality is annecessary and it can perceive its originality. If persuading is important, gooddesign and creativity power can be showed for this persuading, therefore gooddesign is important. So designer must know computer programs for reflectinghis/ her creativity. These programs are tools for his/her. All these areprovided with good education for designers. However a designer knows graphicprograms on computer if he/ she is far from creativity, she/he is unsuccessfulfor design so usual, far from persuading design is seen. This notice aim is;design is the more provide environment demand, the more changing andcompetition will be very fastly and also life power will rise dramatically.Namely graduated from graphic design department students provide opportunityfor pioneer to their sector. Design ways will be talked as creative progress.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ocak 2012
Dergi ismi: Erciyes Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/eruifd/issue/5984/79579
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/66923
