Makale Başlığı: Developing and implementing a student satisfaction scale for the emergency remote teaching in higher education
Özet: With the COVID-19 pandemic that started in Turkey in 2020, a compulsory and rapid transition to distance education has been made at all levels of education, and online systems have become indispensable environments of the education system. In this process, students' satisfaction with the distance education process has emerged as a variable that educational institutions evaluate primarily. This study aims to develop a valid and reliable measurement tool to determine the satisfaction levels of students in higher education institutions in the process of emergency remote teaching (ERT). The scale items were created by the researchers through a literature review, and the scope and face validities were ensured by means of expert opinion. The scale was applied online to 6540 students at a state university in the spring term of the 2020–2021 academic year, via the learning management system. Because of the factor analysis, a scale consisting of 29 items and 4 factors was obtained.  The factors are "The role of the Instructor" with 11 items,  "Attitude" with 7 items, "ICT Infrastructure" with 7 items and "Usability and Access" with 4 items. It is seen that scale items explain 71.35% of the total variance. The structure of the scale was evaluated with confirmatory factor analysis and it was seen that the model had an acceptable fit. The values obtained in the reliability analyses show that the scale has high reliability. The Cronbach alpha coefficient for the scale was calculated as 0.975. Additionally, the satisfaction scores from the scale were examined in terms of the gender, field and degree level. While a significant relationship was found between satisfaction and gender, there was no significant relationship between satisfaction and field as well as between satisfaction and degree level.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mutlu Tahsin ÜSTÜNDAĞ', 'Ebru SOLMAZ', 'Seher ÖZCAN']
Yayın Yılı: 10 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Educational Technology and Online Learning
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jetol/issue/72940/1161276
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2593459
