Makale Başlığı: The Reflection of Number Mysticism in Arabic Language: Wâw al-Thamâniyah -A Historical Reading Essay-
Özet: This article is about the historical background and ideological reflections of wâw al-thamâniyah, which is claimed to be a fixed usage in the Arabic language by some Arab linguists, writers and commentators. The subject has been handled as a grammatical discussion in various tafsir and grammar books for about ten centuries, and it has found supporters in favor or against it. The fact that it is suitable to be evaluated within the framework of the secrets of the Qur'an is one of the main reasons why the issue remains on the agenda today. However, wâw al-thamâniyah is a claim that is not based on strong grammatical foundations. On the other hand, the fact that it received so much attention has brought to mind the possibility that there may be a different motivation behind the idea of the wâw al-thamâniyah. The reason why this article was written is to try to identify this motivation. In the study, many tafsir and grammatical works that deal with the subject from any aspect were examined chronologically. In addition, this view has been traced in the works of the first period linguists, who are said to have accepted the wâw al-thamâniyah rule. In the study which carried out in this framework, it has been determined that the idea of  wâw al-thamâniyah is related to number mysticism as well as its lexical aspect. On the other hand, serious information has been obtained that Ismailiye, also known as Seb'iyye, tried to use the rule of wâw al-thamâniyah to strengthen his doctrines. Because they adopted the belief of seven eras for a period. However, after approximately 700/1300 years, it was seen that this situation was ignored and the wâw al-thamâniyah was turned into a linguistic issue.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Faruk ÇİFÇİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Ondokuz Mayıs Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/omuifd/issue/70874/1052914
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2172903
