Makale Başlığı: A Review of Complex Geometric High Rise Buildings According to TBDY 2018: The Case of Çamlıca Hill TV and Radio Tower
Özet: Earthquake regulations are the rules established for evaluating and strengthening the seismic performance of structures. The strength of structures designed without these rules is debatable. In this context, high-rise buildings that exhibit sensitive behavior under lateral loads come to the fore. For high structures, especially those with organic forms or those generated from fractal geometry (complex geometry), this is an even more crucial issue. It is clearly seen from Turkey's earthquake regulations that the rules pertaining to tall buildings were not added to the regulations until 2018. However, many high-rise buildings in various geometries of 50 floors and above have been built since 2010 in the country. Furthermore, they were built in Istanbul, which is one of the riskiest areas for earthquakes. Therefore, in this study, the complex geometry of Istanbul Küçük Camlıca Hill TV and Radio Tower, whose construction started prior to 2018, was used to examine the health monitoring system directive and TBDY's new rules added in 2018. In this stage of evaluation, it is first discussed which factors may come from the criteria of irregularity obtained from TBDY2018 and what countermeasures may be used. Following that, it was established whether these elements were in the sample building or not, and it was discussed whether the building complied with the applicable laws. It has been investigated whether precautions are taken against irregularities in application preferences that are incompatible with the rules. The scope of the directive of the building health monitoring system, which is stipulated in high-rise buildings in accordance with the regulation, was presented in the second stage, and it was revealed which materials and high-rise buildings should be examined. A sampling of what kind of an approach should be applied in accordance with these rules was made on the Camlıca Hill TV and Radio Tower.The evaluations concluded that the health monitoring system directive rules, which were newly added to the 2018 regulation, are critical for structures with complex geometry and that the wind element is not adequately addressed in the regulations. The purpose of this study is to advance the literature by encouraging the evaluation of the health monitoring system as a design consideration and to raise awareness of rigid and aesthetically pleasing building designs by providing examples of the places where architectural design and regulatory concepts clash.
Yazar isimleri: ['İlayda YALÇIN', 'Aslı ER AKAN', 'Hilal Tuğba ÖRMECİOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kent Akademisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kent/issue/70491/1069274
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2236910
