Makale Başlığı: Determining the Relationship Between the Fear of Covid-19 and Burnout Levels of Restaurant Employees: The Case of Hatay
Özet: The main purpose of this research is; The aim of this study is to determine the relationship betweenthe fear of Covid-19 and burnout levels of restaurant employees operating in Hatay. Accordingly,determining the effects of fear of Covid-19 on employees, emotional exhaustion, depersonalizationand low personal achievement, which are sub-dimensions of burnout, are among the sub-objectivesof this study. Although there are many studies examining the Covid-19 outbreak, this research isimportant because there are limited studies examining the burnout levels of restaurant businessesand their employees. The universe of the research consists of the employees of restaurant businessesoperating in Hatay. The province of Hatay was preferred due to the fact that the region chosen forthe research is a developing region with tourism potential and the increase in restaurant businesses.In order to achieve this aim, data were obtained from the employees of restaurant businessesoperating in the province of Hatay by survey method. The developed questionnaire was approvedby the Iskenderun Technical University Ethics Committee. Data were collected online (due topandemic conditions) in May-June 2021. Since the number of restaurant employees is not knownexactly, 384 people were accepted as a sufficient number as the sample, since it was accepted as anunlimited universe. Due to the pandemic we are in, a total of 274 surveys were made, as manyrestaurant businesses were closed during the survey period. As a result of the data obtained; It hasbeen determined that there is a positive and significant relationship between the fear of Covid-19and burnout levels of the employees. However, in terms of the sub-dimensions of burnout, a positiveand significant relationship was found between the fear of Covid-19 and emotional exhaustion.Likewise, a positive and significant relationship was found between depersonalization..
Yazar isimleri: ['Seyran REYHANDALI', 'Hasan CİNNİOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2021
Dergi ismi: Gastroia: Journal of Gastronomy And Travel Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gastoria/issue/65610/969438
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1873924
