Makale Başlığı: Multilingualism, communication and translation: An analsın of the crosscultural transfer of audioviusal products from a translation studies perspective
Özet: The study combining concept and fields such as multilingualism and audiovisual translation, pursues two objectives. The first is to draw attention to the increasing reflection of multilingualism in translation, societies and media products. The second is to emphasize the importance of this in audiovisual media products. The introduction emphasizes the importance of multilingualism and multiculturalism and the concepts, we also  explain why studies like this research are needed. A theoretical framework is drawn by referring to literature in the field. In the next section, the definition of multilingualism in audiovisual translation, (dubbing and subtitling) are discussed. In the method section, the selection of the samples examined are explained, and this is linked to the purpose of the research. Under the examples and analysis, multilingualism and audiovisual translation are examined under four subheadings. At the end of each example, issues such as translator choices, how this effects perception of the end-users  and the suitability of the original product in line with its creative intent are emphasized. In conclusion, it is underlined that multilingualism has become a part of audiovisual products. However, there are not many satisfactory examples that reflect this purposive element in Turkish yet. Possible reasons are given. However, by underlining that multilingualism in audiovisual products is increasing it is emphasized that it is time for today's translators and sectors to produce certain policies, approaches and creative solutions in order to reflect this in translation. This is an issue that needs to be addressed urgently in the audiovisual translation sectors.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1192530
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2722535
