Makale Başlığı: ACCORDING TO THE WORKS FAMOUS NESEB-NÂME-İ MÜLÜK (ŞUÂB-I PENCGANE) AND MU‘İZZÜ’L ENSÂB, THE WIFES OF ÖGEDEY KHAN AND ÇAĞATAY KHAN
Özet: Genealogical trees is one of the richest sources of history, consisting of Arabic, Persian and Turkish. In Turkish and Mongolian history, genealogical trees have a valuable place. In this context, the work known as Neseb-nâme-i Mülük, or in other words Şuâb-ı Pencgane, which was written by the İlhanlı (Iranian Mongols) vizier Reşidüddin Fazlullah, gives detailed information about the genealogy of the Mongols. In addition, the work called Mu'izzü'l Ensâb fî Şeceretü'l Ensâb-ı Selâtin-i Mongol, which was started to be written in 830/1426-27 at the request of the Timurid ruler Shahruh Mirza and whose author is unknown, also benefited from the work of Reşidüddin Fazlullah transferred his genealogical tree.  This work generally recorded exactly the information given by Neseb-nâme-i Mülûk until the period of Gazan Khan. The genealogies of Sultan Olcaytû and Ebu Said Khan, who came after Gazan Khan, were also added to Mu'izzü'l Ensâb. After the Mongolian (Ilkhanid) talk in Mu'izzü'l Ensâb, the talk of Timur and his sons begins and the work ends with the genealogy of Sultan Hüseyin Baykara. Anonymous Mu'izzü'l Ensâb and Reşidüddin Fazlullah's work called Neseb-nâme-i Mülük is almost the same in form, that is, in composition style. The most striking difference between them in terms of form or shape is the presence of writings in Uighur letters between the lines in Neseb-nâme-i Mülük. These two works are very similar to each other in terms of style. In these genealogy books, not only the names of the khans and princes were recorded, but also the names of the ladies of the khans, their wives and officials at the state level. In addition, there is information from time to time on the margins next to the manuscripts. These two works have been examined by some researchers in terms of form and content, but no studies have been made about the women in the work. The recording of women's names in these two genealogy books is important in terms of showing how important women were in the Mongols. In the Mongols, the head lady managed the house and children in the absence of her husband, took care of the affairs of the place, and accordingly occupied an important place. In addition, Mongolian women participated in ceremonies, banquets and congresses and took their place on the throne of the ruler according to his rank in the dynasty. Special rules and measures were found regarding the respect of each woman's dignity and rank in the ceremony, feasts, official ceremonies and public receptions, which are of great importance. In addition, there is no limit to polygamy in Mongolian traditions. For this reason, it has been inevitable for us to see examples of levirate and sororate marriages in Mongols. There are both social and economic reasons for making such marriages in Mongols. The sons of Genghis Khan and the heirs of the Mongol Empire, Çağatay Khan and Ögedey Khan also had many marriages. In Neseb-nâme-i Mülük and Muizü'l-Ensâb, the names of the women of these two inns are mentioned and the princes born from them are also recorded. In this study, according to the work named Neseb-nâme-i Mülük ve Muizü'l-Ensâb, the women of Ögedey Han and Çağatay Han will be revealed according to the order of the mentioned works and information will be given about the life of these women. Thus, with this study, detailed information about Ögedey Han and Çağatay Han's women and children will be obtained.
Yazar isimleri: ['Rakkuş KARADUMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Genel Türk Tarihi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gttad/issue/71320/1133506
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2497863
