Makale Başlığı: GLOBALIZATION, MIGRATION, ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS AND WOMEN
Özet: Globalization is a phenomenon that emerged after the economic crisis that occurred after the end of the cold war after two great wars of sharing that took place one after the other at short intervals. Another important reason for the emergence of globalization is the knowledge and information network technology developed in a very short time in developed countries. The rapid development in technology affects many areas as well as people's lifestyles very quickly. It is seen that like technology also the cultural change that has emerged with globalization has changed people and their lifestyles more than expected. All over the world, the similarities in people's thoughts and behaviours related to clothing, behaviour, entertainment, consumption, health and travel are increasing day by day. As a result of the dizzying developments in transportation and information network, the world is getting smaller in a sense and the circulation of goods and people between countries is constantly increasing. Globalization, which causes changes in many areas of human life, also affects the intensity of the migration movement. Migration, which is a phenomenon as old as the history of humanity, this time emerges as one of the effects of globalization and affects both countries and societies. The phenomenon of migration also causes important environmental problems depending on the intensity of migration and the preparedness of the countries. Problems caused by migration unfortunately affect women who are most vulnerable to impact. Depending on various factors, the effect of globalization on women and men occurs at different levels in every field. In this study, the effects of globalization and migration on women and solutions are discussed from a social work perspective.
Yazar isimleri: ['Malik ATIŞ', 'Esra AĞYAR ELBİSTANLI']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Stratejik Boyut Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ustbd/issue/73226/1176801
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2656941
