Makale Başlığı: Transthoracic Lung Biopsy: A Retrospective Evaluation of the  First Experiences in A Single Center
Özet: Background: To evaluate our first experience on computed tomography (CT)-guided transthoracic lung biopsy and compare our results including complication rates, etc. with the literature. Materials and Methods: Thirty-four  CT-guided transthoracic biopsies in 33 consecutive patients with lung lesions using a 15 cm long 16 gauge semi-automatic (coaxial) biopsy needle were retrospectively evaluated. Age, gender, size of the lesion, location, distance to pleura, needle insertion angle, patient position, presence of emphysema and/or complications (pneumothorax and pulmonary hemorrhage), radiological findings before, during and after the biopsy,and pathological diagnosis were retrieved from patient files. The diagnostic success and failure of the method, and complication rates were noted.Results: Pneumothorax and pulmonary hemorrhage were observed in 9 and 7 patients, respectively, and 4 patients had both. Application of a chest tube was necessary in only 4 patients (4 of 9 patients wirth pneumothorax). None of the patients with pulmonary hemorrhage required additional procedures. The biopsy sample was adequate for histopathologic evaluation in 32 patients with a diagnostic accuracy rate of 96.6%. The most frequent diagnosis was squamous cell carcinoma (11/33), followed by other types of primary lung tumors in 14, breast carcinoma metastasis in 2, and B-cell lymphoma in 1 patient. Conclusions: Our rate of complication due to CT-guided transthoracic lung biopsy seems to be comparable with the literature. Pneumothorax and pulmonary hemorrhage may occur in up to one fifth/fourth but the management of these complications does not require additional procedures in the majority of patients, and the diagnostic accuracy rate is high.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mahmut ÇORAPLI', 'Mustafa GÖKSU', 'Hüseyin ALAKUŞ', 'Hacı Taner BULUT', 'Burcin PEHLİVANOGLU']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Harran Üniversitesi Tıp Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/hutfd/issue/71631/1070659
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2242605
