Makale Başlığı: The Scope Of Religious Education And Teaching In The Youth Period
Özet: In this study; the subjects to be taught to the students, the measure of these teachings and the religious education and training will be designed according to Islam. This purpose has been evaluated in terms of basic education in Islam. It can also be grown in close to two classrooms with a bedroom next to the beds in the bedroom. In this qualitative study used in the examinations, the literature on Islamic education and training examined by teachers was collected and evaluated. "Islam and its appearance" determined the boundaries of the study. While "education/knowledge" is at the forefront in Islam, while examining the issues related to education and education, considerations and environmental issues are included. The young people stood out in terms of development, with the understanding of education, which was put forward by the people, faith and will of the religion of Islam. For this reason, it has been seen that the content of Islamic education and training has a structure that supports the developmental characteristics of the youth period. In order to educate the youth, who will continue our generation, in accordance with the divine nature and to convey values to them, it is necessary to act with all the stakeholders of the society in order to teach exemplary personalities as role models and turn them into gains. Young people will only be able to overcome the problems they face with the inspiration they get from the experiences of these exemplary individuals. In that case, the duty of educators is to create the content of education and training in a way that young people can understand and bring moral individuals to the society, and to provide a suitable environment for them. This is an education that integrates the developmental characteristics of young people with the age they live in and Islamic resources. As a result, it has been determined that the content of religious education and teaching has positive effects in the balanced development of the youth period in the light of the information obtained from Islamic sources. In addition, the findings obtained as a result of the research strengthened the hope that the negative effects that cause psychological discomfort and life dissatisfaction in the search for meaning of the young in the modern age can eliminate the protection of education and training determined according to Islamic sources.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 22 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye Din Eğitimi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tudear/issue/70435/1134022
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2500061
