Makale Başlığı: Fulfilment Levels of School Administrators' Technology Leadership Roles
Özet: The research was designed in descriptive survey model to examine school administrators'level of performing technology leadership roles and whether these levels differ accordingto some demographic variables. The target population of the research is composed ofteachers working in primary, secondary and high schools in Efeler district of Aydınprovince in the 2018-2019 academic year. The study was carried out with 392 teachers.Data was collected by “Personal Information Form” and “School administrators'Technology Leadership Scale”. The analysis of the data was performed with descriptiveand evidence-based statistical techniques. Teachers' perceptions of technology leadershipwere relatively high in all dimensions. Teachers' perceptions of technology leadership donot differ according to gender but there were statistically significant differences in terms ofeducational status, seniority and school type. In the vision - support dimension and generaltechnology leadership, the scores of associate degree graduates are higher than that ofbachelor’s and master’s degree graduates. In the communication-collaboration dimension,the scores of associate degree graduates are higher than that of bachelor’s degreegraduates. In the sub-dimensions of vision-support and communication-cooperation, thescores of the teachers with seniority of 21 years and above were relatively higher than theteachers with seniority of 10 years and below. In general technology leadership and in allsub-dimensions, primary school teachers' scores were higher than secondary and highschool teachers' scores, and secondary school teachers' scores were relatively higher thanhigh school teachers' scores. Based on these findings, various suggestions were offered toprotect and improve the technology leadership behaviors exhibited by schooladministrators
Yazar isimleri: ['Erkan KIRAL', 'Altan ÖZTABAN']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Muğla Sıtkı Koçman Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/muefd/issue/70362/1072650
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2249905
