Makale Başlığı: Why Didn't Egyptians Become Shia During the Fatimid Period?
Özet: Fatimid history is considered one of the main periods of Islamic history in Egypt, so we cannot talk about the cultural metropolis of Egypt, the city of Cairo, without mentioning its founder, Jawhar al-Siqilli, the leader of the Fatimid Caliph al-Muizz Li-Din Allah al-Fatimid. The same is true of the Al-Azhar Mosque, which since its establishment until now has gained international fame in the Islamic world, throughout the historical stages, in addition to many of the Fatimid monuments scattered in Old Cairo such as mosques, schools and alleys, all of this appears when talking about Egypt in general and Islamic Egyptin particular. The Fatimids sought to seize the Egyptian country a lot, as two military campaigns from North Africa to Egypt were launched, each of them failed. Then, the third campaign succeeded, led by Jawhar al-Siqilli, after the Fatimid Caliph al-Muizz prepared the equipment this time and arranged the army well, and had previously sent missionaries to this geography through the city of Alexandria and others, to herald the demise of the Ikhshidid state and the coming of the savior from this injustice and economic stagnation under which Egypt has fallen. He took several measures to try to declare Fatimid control over the Egyptian country. A delegation of the Egyptians sought to obtain a covenant from the Fatimid leader Jawhar al-Siqilli, to reassure them and remove their fears, especially with regard to their beliefs and religious matters. Indeed, the Fatimid leader issued this covenant, which included many things to reassure the Egyptians, among them that the Companions of the prophet are the most honorable people contrary to the famous Shiite belief- and that each will leave his belief, but it was not long before this covenant until many things were sealed. Our research here focuses on these matters.The research is divided into three main ponits: the first is the sectarian history of Egypt before the Fatimid occupation, and the second is the attempts to impose the Shiite sect on the Egyptians. The last point is the resistance or what hinders this imposition, and it is this last part that limited these influences to the Fatimid monuments such as buildings, mosques and schools.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ramy MAHMOUD']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Tasavvur / Tekirdağ İlahiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tasavvur/issue/70849/1085371
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2300179
