Makale Başlığı: Bibliometric Analysis of Theses Related to Science Fiction Cinema in Turkey
Özet: In the last thirty years, many theses have been completed in the field of communication sciences in Turkey. The field of communication sciences has witnessed an intense academic production in parallel with the developments in communication and technology. The increase in completed theses has also led to an increase in research on the examination of theses. Studies on graduate theses are extremely important in terms of revealing the status, development and trends of a particular subject in a field. Examining graduate research theses is vital for academic institutions as well as students. Therefore, it is thought that this study is important in terms of revealing the status, development and trends of research on science fiction cinema within the scope of graduate theses. The aim of this research is to examine the literature on science fiction cinema in Turkey through postgraduate theses. During the study process, accessible postgraduate theses related to science fiction cinema were examined through the National Thesis Center and then these theses were subjected to bibliometric analysis. In this context, this research has taken the problem of determining the science fiction cinema literature in Turkey in the context of postgraduate theses and bibliometric analysis of the data obtained by examining the documents in the research sample, evaluating and interpreting the bibliometric indicators. In the research, theses related to science fiction cinema were analyzed bibliometrically according to various categories, and a number of results were obtained that could strongly support and direct the studies they planned to make to the researchers from various aspects.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ferdi CANDAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Intermedia International E-journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/intermedia/issue/70804/1108406
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2394422
