Makale Başlığı: The Relationship Between Levels of Burnout and Hopelessness in Families 	of Children with Learning Disability
Özet: Learning disability, which is included in the group of disabilities frequently encountered in the field of special education, is a disorder that manifests itself with delays or inadequacies in listening, speaking, reading, comprehension, reasoning and written expression skills. Determining the diagnostic criteria for learning disability has led to an increase in the number of students with this diagnosis, along with the increase and development of educational opportunities for students with learning disabilities. Studies in the field of learning disability in recent years have brought to the fore the idea of determining the needs of the individuals in the family and providing support to the family according to these needs, together with the services provided to the child with special needs. Therefore, it was aimed to examine the burnout and hopelessness levels among parents of children with learning disability. The study group of the research consists of 212 parents selected through purposive sampling. In addition to the “Demographic Information Form” prepared by the researchers, “Beck Hopelessness Scale” and “Maslach Burnout Scale” were used to collect the data. The research is a cross-sectional study and relational survey model was used as research method. SPSS 21.0 was used in the analysis of the data.  According to the findings obtained from the study, a statistically significant relationship was found between hopelessness and its sub-dimensions and burnout and its sub-dimensions in parents of children with learning disability (p<0.05). As a result, as hopelessness increases in parents of children with learning disability, burnout increases. In the literature review, it was determined that the results obtained in the research were similar to the results of the study. In this context, it is recommended to establish psychoeducational and self-help groups to reduce the feelings of hopelessness and burnout experienced by parents of children with learning disability.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ebru ÖZÜLKÜ', 'Başak BAĞLAMA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Yaşam Becerileri Psikoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ybpd/issue/70346/1114881
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2420513
