Makale Başlığı: Ethnic Identity in Contemporary Painting: The Case of Chris Ofili
Özet: The historical information and documents of the centuries are full of stances against the other. This conflict has affected various branches of science and has been a means of reflection in their artistic activities. Artists who are the transmitters of visual memory have witnessed these conflicts of the ages. This study, based on the concept of ethnic identity, aims to reveal the concept of ethnic identity in contemporary art, which is an expression of various environmental, socio-cultural, and economic reflections faced by humanity, in connection with the Neo-Expressionist approach of Chris Ofili, a British contemporary artist of Nigerian origin. The boundaries and resources can be varied and uncertain because the research covers a subject with artistic and contemporary foundations.  For this reason, a case study, one of the qualitative research designs, was used in the research. Document analysis, one of the qualitative research method data collection techniques, was used to collect data in the study. By reaching libraries, the National thesis center and internet resources for obtaining data in research; Resources such as books, thesis, articles, journals, and scientific-based internet articles were scanned. In line with the keywords of the research, a search was made without historical limitations. In the research, the transfer of marginalizing events that take place for political and religious purposes to art and cultural memory in the context of tradition was examined. Ethnic identity and cultural memory connections have been interpreted and revealed through the works of Chris Ofili, a contemporary British artist.  In the study, the reflections of other approaches on art were investigated and the study was supported with the semantic emphasis in Chris Ofili's works.  It has been concluded that Chris Ofili, with his works and manifestations, revealed his black identity, African roots, the views and attitudes of the western civilization towards his ancestors and other societies with subtle messages by taking some of the saints of the west in a mocking way. It can be said that Chris Ofili left messages to new generations such as protecting her own culture, embracing her identity, and not accepting it without question.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ünal BASTABAN']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ekim 2021
Dergi ismi: Güzel Sanatlar Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ataunigsed/issue/65570/909781
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1684810
