Makale Başlığı: EFFECT OF NANO-LAYERED  BORON NITRIDE (BNNS)ADDITION  ON BİODEGRADABİLİTY PROPERTİES OF POLYETHYLENE NANOCOPOSIDES
Özet: Polyethylene (PE) is a partial thermoplastic material. Hexagonal boron nitride (hBN) is a layered structure similar to graphite. hBN is used as super solid lubricants, UV radiators or thermal conductivity enhancing agents in composites. The use of nano-layered boron nitride (BNNS), which is obtained by chemical exflation of hBN's micro-sized grains with has superior mechanical and thermal properties, has taken place in the literature as filler for improving polymer barrier, thermal and mechanical properties. However,  in the literature on the biodegradability of composite films containing (LDPE)BNNS study hasn't been found. In this study, the determination of biodegradability properties of LDPE nanocomposite films containing BNNS, which were previously prepared by extrusion method and characterization tests were carried out, were investigated. Biodegradability analysis were performed according to ASTM D 5988-03 (Standard Test Method for Determining Aerobic Biodegradation of Plastic Materials after Composting in Soil) between 2-99 days. The humidity ratio was set to 65% for the biometer flasks containing 100 g of soil and 0.2 g of sample. In order for biodegradability to occur, the C:N adjustment was made at a ratio of 15:1 using di ammonium hydrogen phosphate ((NH4)2HPO4) in the soil. The amount of CO2 formed as a result of biodegradability was calculated by analyzing with the titration method. The ratio of the amount of CO2 found by biodegradability analyzes to the theoretical amount of CO2 found as a result of elemental analysis was calculated as percentage (%) biodegradability. The biodegradability of the sample containing 1% BNNS, it was determined to be less than the sample without BNNS and the negative sera nylon, 0.83% and 0.99%, respectively. After the analysis of biodegradability, the XRD peak intensities of LDPE and hBN was determined decrease due to the change in the polymer structure. In the FTIR results, band formations were observed at new wavelengths due to oxidized fragments containing OH groups resulting from biodegradation. With the addition of hBN, it was determined that the barrier, thermal and mechanical properties were improved, the polymer structure became more resistant to microorganisms and increased its service life.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zuhal YILMAZ', 'Nuran AY']
Yayın Yılı: 18 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Eskişehir Osmangazi Üniversitesi Mühendislik ve Mimarlık Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ogummf/issue/72210/1078998
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2274690
