Makale Başlığı: Social Media Practices of Housewives: The Case of Batman
Özet: Cinema, which was included in social life as an art and entertainment tool at the end of the 19th century, gained a mass dimension in a short time. Cinema, which was the most preferred entertainment tool for the middle and lower classes in that period, also caused anxiety and worries in some social segments. Especially conservative social groups claimed that crime, violence, sexuality, alcohol and cigarette consumption were represented in an encouraging way in movies. As these concerns deepened and became widespread, public and non-governmental organizations had to take some steps in this regard. In the United States, between 1929 and 1932, a research series called Motion Pictures and Youth: The Payne Fund Studies was conducted in cooperation with the Motion Picture Research Council and the Payne Research and Experiment Fund, focusing on the effects of cinema on the behavior of children and youth. The results of this research series have been published in twelve reports. According to the results of the research, cinema has turned into an important tool in the formation of attitudes and behaviors of children and young people, and cinema causes behavioral disorders and sleep problems in children. After the reports of the research were published, heavy censorship policies were implemented in the United States of America. This series, which is one of the most comprehensive and influential studies in the history of film studies, has also inspired many researches in the following periods. Our study, which focuses on Payne Fund Studies within the framework of paradigm, method, content and results, is a descriptive study based on literature review and aims to contribute to the sociology of cinema by increasing the visibility of Payne Fund Studies.
Yazar isimleri: ['Adnan ÇETİN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Şarkiyat
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sarkiat/issue/72894/1162762
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2599152
