Makale Başlığı: Can ultrasound probes and coupling gel in gynaecology and obstetrics clinics be the origin of capable bacterial infections? A tertiary care hospital experience
Özet: Background: The aim was to evaluate the bacterial contamination rate of ultrasound probes and gels and the associated nosocomial infection risk. In this way, we aimed to assess whether our ultrasound probe disinfection protocols were effective in reducing the risk of hospital-wide infection.Material and Methods:  Forty-eight  swab samples were collected from the surfaces of transabdominal (TAP) and transvaginal ultrasound (TVP) probes and adhered to gel bottles, which were then cultured in the microbiology laboratory. In comparison, bacterial contamination of gynecology room door handles (12 swab cultures) was analyzed. These measurements were repeated every week for one month, so that each probe was cultured four times during the study period.Results: Non-pathogenic microorganisms (Staphylococcus epidermidis, S. hominis, S. haemolyticus, S. lugdunensis, Corynebacterium amycolatum, C. aurimucosum) common in human skin flora and the environment and two notable pathogens (Enterobacter cloacae, Escherichia coli) were isolated from the probe cultures. Non-pathogenic organisms (S. epidermidis, S. cohnii) were isolated from gel cultures. Also, no significant differences were also found between groups in contamination rates during various patient examinations and emergencies (p > 0.05).Conclusion: Bacterial contamination was found on ultrasound probes/gels in our department. Although the majority were non-pathogenic microorganisms, two pathogenic microorganisms were also identified. Hospital staff should remember that ultrasound probes can be a tool for bacterial infection and can lead to infectious complications. Decontamination of probes with dry, nonsterile paper towels is a cheap, simple, and effective method that does not damage the device and can also reduce bacterial exposure.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nilufer AKGÜN', 'Aybüke KEVSER', 'Serap YAĞCI', 'Cigdem ATAMAN HATİPOGLU', 'Yusuf USTUN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Jinekoloji-Obstetrik ve Neonatoloji Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jgon/issue/72893/1133977
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2499833
