Makale Başlığı: Organizational Structure and Functioning of the Insurance Arbitration Commission
Özet: In this study, the organizational structure and functioning of the Insurance Arbitration Commission, which was established recently in our country, was investigated. Accordingly, a new procedural opportunity and legal remedy specific to the insurance field was introduced in our country in 2007. This structure, which is expressed as the arbitration system in insurance, was established under the Insurance Arbitration Commission, which was established directly under the Association of Insurance and Reinsurance Companies of Turkey and does not have a separate legal entity. While the regulation and supervision duties and powers in this field were previously left to the Ministry of Treasury andFinance, with the Presidential Decree No. 47 in 2019, with the establishment of the Insurance and Private Pension Regulation and Supervision Agency the duties and powers were transferred to this institution. The organizational structure of the Insurance Arbitration Committee is structured in a tripartite structure; the presidency of insurance arbitration commission, office in charge of daily affairs and insurance arbitrators constitute the basis of this structure. However, the place and importance of arbitrators in the system is different. Accordingly, insurance arbitrators act like judges in the resolution of disputes. Arbitrators examine the disputes that come ahead of them in terms of procedure and substance and reach the results. Decisions made by the arbitrators are final up to a certain amount. Insurance arbitrators, like rapporteurs, can only work in one of the life or non-life insurance branches. In addition, insurance arbitrators are divided into two as dispute arbitrator and objection arbitrator. At this point, the InsuranceArbitration Commission is successful in resolving insurance disputes quickly and with low costs and gains the public's trust. However, despite all these positive aspects, it can be said that there are deficiencies in the legislation regarding the duties of the commission manager, the powers of therapporteurs and the rejection of the arbitrators, and therefore new regulations are needed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Habib YILDIZ']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Ekonomik ve Sosyal Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/esad/issue/70716/1117627
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2431925
