Makale Başlığı: Do Economic Circumstances and Family Structures Affect Young Girls' Healthy Living Behaviors and Menstrual Symptoms?
Özet: Aim: Demographic features such as low income, low education, and living in a crowded or single-parent family increase young girls' premenstrual and menstrual symptoms such as pain, anxiety and bleeding, and affect negatively their healthy lifestyle. The purpose of the study was to analyze the relationship between healthy lifestyle behaviors and menstrual symptoms among young girls and their sociodemographic characteristics.Methods: This descriptive study was conducted on 1,130 students from four high schools providing full-time education in the Beylikduzu district of Istanbul between February 3, 2020, and March 1, 2020. Volunteer students whose families gave consent participated in the study. A personal identification form, the Menstrual Symptom Scale and the Healthy Lifestyle Behavior Scale-II (HLBS-II) were used to collect data in the study. All statistical analyses were performed using SPSS Statistics version 23.Results: It was found that economic status and painful menstruation affected negatively healthy lifestyle behaviors, while living with one’s nuclear family affected positively healthy lifestyle behaviors; furthermore, chronic disease, painful menstruation, and family types other than the nuclear family affected negatively menstrual symptoms.Conclusions and Suggestions: Poor economic status and painful menstruation affected negatively healthy lifestyle behaviors, and chronic disease, painful menstruation and family type other than the nuclear family affected negatively menstrual symptoms. Researching how economic status and other sociodemographic characteristics affect menstrual symptoms in different groups may contribute to the literature more.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hülya TOSUN', 'Esra KARACA ÇİTFÇİ']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Samsun Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jshs/issue/72266/1054475
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2179112
