Makale Başlığı: A Study on the Protection Levels of Office Workers from Pandemic in Terms of Occupational Health and Safety
Özet: According to the definition of the World Health Organization, health is defined as "a state of complete mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity". Occupational health and safety is based on the principle of protecting the physical and mental integrity of the employee from the risks arising from the dangers that exist during the execution of the work and ensuring that they work in a healthy and safe environment. A pandemic was declared by the World Health Organization with the emergence and rapid spread of the new type of the new type of coronavirus (Covid-19) in Wuhan, China. In this difficult process that swept the whole World, changes have occurred in business life as in all sectors. The rapid spread of the deadly effects of the virus has made it necessary to change and increase the standards for occuptional health and safety in workplaces. In this study, the level of protection of office workers from the pandemic and the effects of new safety measures in terms of occupational health and safety culture were investigated. The study covers the workplaces that produce Engineering and Architecture services in the province of Istanbul between October and November 2020. The questionnaire items developed to determine the protection levels of office workers from the pandemic were prepared by using national and international sources and applied online. The survey data was evaluated with the SPSS 16.00 program. According to the findings of the study, all employees in the office environment agree that the working environment is ventilated at regular intervals. Results of the study, while all of the participants think that the ventilation in the office environment is sufficient, female employees find the measures insufficient compared to male employees.
Yazar isimleri: ['Serpil GERDAN', 'Esma BULUŞ KIRIKKAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Gümüşhane Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gumussagbil/issue/72733/946029
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1799477
