Makale Başlığı: Bibliometric Profile of Deep Learning Studies Conducted in the Construction Industry
Özet: With the developing and advancing technology, computer technologies have been used in the construction sector to facilitate the process such as design, construction and analysis. One of these technologies is “deep learning” which is a sub-unit of artificial intelligence technology. It is seen that the use of deep learning is limited in the construction sector due to late adaptation to technology compared to other sectors and insufficient investments in this field. Therefore, the studies and researches on the use of deep learning in the construction sector were examined within the scope of this study. The 102,756 articles accessed with the deep learning keyword search in the Web of Science database were refined by using the keyword "deep learning and construction technology”, and bibliometric analysis was conducted on 323 articles. This bibliometric analysis study involved (i) Citation; (ii) Co-authorship (iii) Common citations. The current situation was examined by making a mapping analysis based on bibliographic data through the VOSviewer program. According to the analysis, the leading countries are China and America for 323 articles written in English between 2010-2020. In terms of institutions; it was determined that the first 4 universities are from China, while the keywords that stand out in these articles are deep learning, computer vision, and convolutional neural networks, respectively. Although researches show that the use of deep learning in the construction sector has been growing in recent years, it has been concluded that there are no studies in this field in Turkey. In this context, it is necessary to create an environment that will give the priority for the studies to be done in this field.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zeynep Yeşim İLERİSOY', 'Elif KILIÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Avrupa Bilim ve Teknoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ejosat/issue/71415/1085471
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2300493
