Makale Başlığı: AFTER THE İLKHANİD EMPİRE DECLİNE A WOMAN RULE IN THE İLKHANİD THRONE: SATI-BEK HATUN'S EXPERİENCE AND ACTIVITIES
Özet: The death of Sultan Abu Said Bahadır Khan in 1335 without leaving a son caused political turmoil in the Ilkhanid territories. During this period, each emir was possesed with the desire to become a ruler. The senior administrators of the Ilkhanate Government primarily wanted to place Sultan Olcaytu's daughter, Satı-bek Khatun, on the Ilkhanid throne until the new ruler was elected. However, later, they placed Arpa Khan, a descendant of Tuluy Khan, on the Ilkhanid throne. Arpa Khan married Satı-bek Khatun to strengthen his political authority. From this period, Satı-bek Khatun Ilkhanid began to have a say in the throne. After Arpa Khan, Abu Said Bahadır Khan's uncle Ali Pasha, Shaikh Ḥasan Chupani and Shaikh Ḥasan Jalāyerī, due to their desire to dominate the Ilkhanid lands, placed inns that we can call puppet khans on the Ilkhanid throne. After Arpa Khan, with the support of Ali Pasha, Musa Khan was placed on the Ilkhanid throne. But his reign was short-lived. After that, with the support of Shaikh Ḥasan Jalāyerī, Sultan Muhammad ascended the throne. On the other hand, Kipchak Sheikh Ali declared Toga Timur, a descendant of Cengiz Khan, as Khan and moved to the Azerbaijan region with him. The tradition that the ruler was descended from the Mongol dynasty in the Ilkhanid throne paved the way for Satı-bek Khatun to become a ruler. The struggle between Shaikh Ḥasan Chupani and Shaikh Ḥasan Jalāyerī and the aim of Shaikh Ḥasan Jalāyerī to dominate the Ilkhanid lands with the support of Satı-bek Khatun were among the factors that contributed to Satı-bek Khatun's accession to the Ilkhanid throne. Finally, Satı-bek Khatun was proclaimed ruler with the support of Shepherd Shaikh Ḥasan in 1338 and his name was mentioned on coins and sermons. After Satı-bek Khatun became the ruler, she made new appointments at the state level. After Satı-bek Khatun became the ruler, he first dominated Azerbaijan and Sultaniye. Later, together with Shaikh Ḥasan Chupani, he moved to fight Shaikh Ḥasan Jalāyerī, who had gone to Qazvin. However, due to the winter conditions, peace was achieved between the two sides. Essentially, this peace was made to buy time for both sides. Shaikh Ḥasan Jalāyerī also invited Toga Timur from Khorasan to Azerbaijan in order to eliminate the influence of Shaikh Ḥasan Chupani on Ilkhanid lands. Toga Timur, who came to Sultaniye, had to return to Khorasan again with the deception of Shaikh Ḥasan Chupani. Thus, in the reign of Satı-bek Khatun, the alliance of Sheikh Hasan of Jelayirid and Toga Timur was destroyed by the deception of Shaikh Ḥasan Chupani. Soon after, the reign of Satı-bek Khatun lasted for a year, as Shaikh Ḥasan Chupani could not digest the rule of a woman in the Ilkhanid lands. After Satı-bek Khatun, a descendant of Hülagu Khan named Süleyman was placed on the throne of İlhanlı and Shaikh Ḥasan Chupani married him to Süleyman Han regardless of the consent of Satı-bek Khatun. After this incident, sources do not give clear information about Satı-bek Khatun. Satı-bek Khatun went to Emir Eretna in Anatolia with her son Amir Suyurgan in 746/1345-1346 and probably died here. During the reign of Satı-bek Khatun, she paid close attention to the sheikhs and attended their divans.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet ÖZTURHAN']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Genel Türk Tarihi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gttad/issue/71320/1070923
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2243593
