Makale Başlığı: Gothic Elements in the "Birdenbire Sönen Kandilin Hikâyesi" By Sabahattin Ali
Özet: Gothic literature, also known as horror literature, is a genre that emerged in England in the eighteenth century. These works, which question reality by using extraordinary events and characters, have developed mostly in western literature and America. When Gothic works are examined, mostly to create fear; Elements such as abandoned places, uncanny characters, manuscript notebooks, desolate places, darkness, extraordinary events, ruined places, castles, ghosts, dead, skeletons, and cemeteries have been used. These elements, along with the plot, are designed to scare the reader more. Thanks to these factors, gothic works cause the reader to be afraid of irrational events. In Turkish literature, on the other hand, due to the importance given to reality and the lack of interest in fantasy, few works have been produced to set an example for gothic literature. In addition, despite the existence of the economic, social, and cultural basis for the development and settlement of this genre in the West and America, the absence of such a ground for gothic literature in our country has prevented the development of this genre. Therefore, few works were written to set an example for gothic literature. This study aims to be instrumental in adding a new one to the works evaluated in the gothic genre in our literature. “Birdenbire Sönen Kandilin Hikâyesi” in the Değirmen, the first storybook of Sabahattin Ali, stands out with its gothic features. In this article, the gothic elements in the “Birdenbire Sönen Kandilin Hikâyesi” were determined and the gothic elements in the story were found and evaluated within the framework of gothic literature.
Yazar isimleri: ['Elif ERDENK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Dünya Dilleri, Edebiyatları ve Çeviri Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/wollt/issue/71013/1124840
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2461828
