Makale Başlığı: An Applied Study on the Relationship between Public Education Expenditure and Economic Growth in Turkey
Özet: The level of development of a country is closely related to the education level of that country. Education contributes to the economic and social development of countries. Today, within the scope of adapting to the rapid change in the production of goods and services, the importance of education and expenditures on education is increasing. While education expenditures are a current expenditure item in the short term, they turn into an investment expenditure item in the long term. Due to this nature, education expenditures are called development currents. Education, as a semi-public good and service, is a service that can be offered by both the public and private sectors. When education service is offered, its social cost is higher than its individual cost, when its social benefit is not greater than its individual benefit. Due to this feature, the effective provision of education service is carried out by the public. For these reasons, education expenditures made by the public are important. In this context, using the annual data of Turkey's 1990-2020 period in this study, whether there is a long-term relationship between public education expenditures and economic growth was investigated with the bounds (ARDL) test. According to the findings obtained from the test result, it has been determined that there is a long-term cointegration relationship between the two variables in question and that the increase in public education expenditures positively affects economic growth. In other words, it is seen that a 1% increase in public education expenditures increases economic growth by 0.74%.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bünyamin DEMİRGİL', 'Gazi SONKUR']
Yayın Yılı: 16 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Cumhuriyet Üniversitesi İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://esjournal.cumhuriyet.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/71333/1089034
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2314594
