Makale Başlığı: 'Ideal/imagination'-'real' tension in Necîb el-Kîlânî's novel İʿtirâfâtü ʿAbdilmütecellî
Özet: In this article, the tension and conflict phenomena between idealized thoughts and dreams and psychological and political (social) realities in the novel İ'tirâfâtü ʿAbdilmütecellî by Necîb el-Kîlânî (1931-1995), one of the pioneers of Islamic Literature in Egypt, were examined. The main character of the novel, Abdülmütecelli, is a poor but relatively educated simple citizen who works as a municipal officer in a small town in the countryside of Egypt. He portrays an honest, pure and idealistic character who is extremely sensitive to political and social events. Abdülmütecelli is very impressed by the fact that a crane was stolen during the construction of the subway in Cairo, which is very far from his village, and he goes to Cairo to find the crane, even though it is not his duty. While his idealistic and dreamy aspects expose him to many dangers, on the other hand, he will be instrumental in confronting both himself and Egypt's realities. Confessions actually express the lessons that Abdülmütecelli learned from these tensions, personal experiences, the truths that he ascribed to himself, and most importantly, his criticism of the state/society. In the novel, an idealized tragicomic and symbolic style is used over the crane theme. In the novel, tensions between ideal/dream and reality are told through opposing themes such as country (village)-city, individual-state/society, good-bad. The effect of these opposing themes can be seen in most of the technical expressions such as stream of consciousness, inner monologue, dialogue, summarization and description used functionally in the novel. The subject, narrative styles and plot of the novel appear as a reflection of Kîlânî's views in the world of literature and ideas.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1193066
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2724683
