Makale Başlığı: POPULIST OBJECTIONS, SEXUAL THREATS AND CALLS TO RETURN TO THE FAMILY: ANTI-GENDER
Özet: Basically, gender defines a comprehensive determination effort in which gender is socially constructed and in this construction process, from behavior patterns to roles of femininity and masculinity. A wide array of expectations is encountered about how a woman should behave in order to be a woman, and what her roles and duties are. Similarly, stereotypes of masculinity are produced socially, and rules and demands on how to be a man are listed. For this reason, it is seen that gender roles are generally evaluated and criticized from a feminist perspective, considering the dominance of patriarchy over women’s lives. Feminism examines the encompassing and oppressive character of gender roles and problematizes its negative impact on women’s freedom. It is discussed how the patterns of femininity are reproduced every time and the functionality of the socially constructed in this process is discussed. The issue of gender is explained by placing it in different contexts in many respects, and the place of the ideological background in this explanation effort is tried to be revealed. When evaluated in terms of political stance, the conservative and religious people’s perception of gender, and especially their view of gender equality, is extremely cautious, distant and mostly shaped on the basis of rejection. The demand for gender equality is considered threatening by these segments, especially in terms of the existence of the family institution, and the arguments for equality are considered meaningless. It is argued that the aforementioned defenses are not acceptable on both a religious and a social basis. Recently, it has been stated by feminist theorists that this reactivity and rejection is much more visible on a global scale, and it is tried to draw attention to this issue. In some European countries, it is seen that prohibition and restriction methods are applied to gender studies, and it is stated that the opposition is getting more and more noticeable with each passing day. In this study, the subject of gender is emphasized and the main arguments of the opposition, which has begun to be defined as “gender ideology”, are tried to be examined.
Yazar isimleri: ['Emel ÇOKOĞULLAR BOZASLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Dumlupınar Üniversitesi İİBF Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dpuiibf/issue/70376/1133222
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2496712
