Makale Başlığı: Optimization of Culture Conditions in Production of Chlorella vulgaris Biomass
Özet: In this work, optimization of microalgal biomass production using C. vulgaris was investigated. The optimization experiments were carried out according to the working table formed by Response Surface Method (RSM). Each experiment was conducted in 250 mL flasks with a 12-hour periods in the light (3000 lux)/dark cycle and at 25 °C. The culture volume, the inoculation ratio, and the culture time were selected as the independent variables. The response variable was the algal biomass concentration. The concentration of algal biomass was measured using UV-Visible spectroscopy method. As a result of the optimization studies, it was determined that the best model representing microalgal biomass production is quadratic source. From ANOVA tests for the quadratic model, it was observed that the three independent variables were also important on the model developed. However, it was determined that the inoculation ratio was less effective than other independent variables, and even, the quadratic effect of this parameter was not effective on the model. It was concluded that the most effective independent variable on the model was time. From RSM analyses, it was founded that the binary interaction of the culture volume-the inoculation ratio was effective on the model. The 3D graphs of this binary interaction showed that the algal biomass concentration was high at high inoculation ratio and at low culture volume in the working range. Optimum C. vulgaris biomass production conditions suggested by RSM were determined as 85,693 mL culture volume, 12,152% inoculation ratio, and 16,952 days.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet KALENDER', 'Sümeyye BÜRKEV']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Mühendislik Araştırma ve Geliştirme Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/umagd/issue/71387/1054221
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2178200
