Makale Başlığı: Use of the kinesio taping techniques as a treatment method in the acute phase of anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. Double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
Özet: Objective: To investigate the effects of kinesio taping (KT) in acute postoperative rehabilitation phase of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction Patients and Methods: Thirty male patients with ACL reconstruction were randomly assigned to either (1) an experimental group to receive a KT treatment through the muscle and lymphatic correction techniques; or (2) a control group for sham KT. Both interventions were applied 2 times during a 10-day period as from postoperative 4th. day. All patients received the same rehabilitation program for 3 months. The groups were compared according to range of motion (ROM), pain, swelling and muscle strength before treatment and on 5th and 10th treatment days. Subjective evaluations were made with Lysholm, Modified Cincinnati, and Tegner scores in postoperative at 1th and 3rd months.  Results: Within group comparisons showed significant improvements in both groups at 5th and 10th day and 1st and 3rd month evaluations (p<0.05). In the experimental group compared with the control group, significant improvements were observed in swelling around patella, all pain measurements and hamstring muscle strength on 5th KT day and knee flexion range of motion (ROM), night pain, all swelling measurements and hamstring muscle strength on 10th KT day (p<0.05).  Conclusions: Our results revealed that KT techniques applied in addition to the acute rehabilitation program of ACL reconstruction are beneficial in treatment of the pain, swelling, knee flexion ROM, and hamstring muscle strength. DOI: 10.3944/AOTT.2015.15.0374This abstract belongs to the un-edited version of the article and is only for informative purposes. Published version may differ from the current version.
Yazar isimleri: ['Selvin BALKİ', 'Zekeriya ÖZTEMUR']
Yayın Yılı: 3 Haziran 2016
Dergi ismi: Acta Orthopaedica et Traumatologica Turcica
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aott/issue/18258/192605
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/user/project/new
