Makale Başlığı: Effect of fertilizer treatments on plant traits of faba beans (Vicia faba L.)
Özet: Objective: In this research, it was aimed to determine the effect of organic, inorganic and bio fertilizers on the subsoiland and aboveground parts of local faba bean. Materials and Methods: The research was carried out in the greenhouse conditions of the Faculty of Agriculture of Dicle University, and in randomized plots  according to the split plot design with three replications. It was used Nutri-umix 660 (organic fertilizer), Fossil (organic fertilizer), DAP (inorganic fertilizer), Rhizobium leguminoserum (biofertilizer) as research material. In research, plant height, whole weight, stem+leaf weight, root weight, root length, number of leaflet, leaflet weight, number of nodules, nodule weight, dry stem weight, dry root weight, dry leaflet weight, dry nodule weight and leaf area were examined in pre-blooming, full-blooming and post blooming periods in three development stages. Additionaly, it was investigated with some equations the effects of treatments on the proportional root weight, proportional stem weight and proportional leaf weight  by using the total plant fresh and dry weights. Results: As a result, it was determined that the treatments made in the pre-blooming period did not have any effect on the investigated properties, and had a greater effect than other fertilizers during the flowering period, organic fertilizers. In the post blooming stage, number of leaflets, leaflet weight, dry stem weight, dry root weight and leaf area control, DAP on nodule number and nodule weight, Nutri-umix on dry leaf weight and Fosil on dry nodule weight had the most effect. Conclusion: With this research, it was determined that the use of inorganic fertilizers in faba bean cultivation did not have a significant effect, however organic fertilizers were increased plant characteristics. It is thought that the use of these fertilizers in faba bean cultivation will contribute to the maintenance of soil fertility, as well.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatma BAŞDEMİR', 'Sibel İPEKEŞEN', 'Murat TUNÇ', 'Seval ELİŞ', 'Behiye BİCER']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Akademik Ziraat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/azd/issue/71633/948958
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1810819
