Makale Başlığı: DETERMINING CONSUMER PAYMENT PREFERENCES IN ONLINE SHOPPING BY GENDER: AN EXAMPLE OF AMASYA PROVINCE
Özet: Purpose- The purpose of this study the development of technology and the widespread use of the internet for global consumers as a result of the increase of the interest in online shopping, consumers ' online shopping behavior according to gender preferred payment method to identify and to analyze whether they differed in.Methodology- In order to achieve the purpose of the study, it was decided to conduct a survey application via Googlesurvey. In the survey, along with demographic questions, the participants were asked which payment methods they used. The participants aged 18 and over residing in Amasya province constitute the universe of the research. The sample of the study consists of 500 participants selected from within the universe by an easy sampling method. Of these 500 participants, 4 did not answer the relevant question and were considered lost sightings. Frequency and chi-square tests were applied to the obtained data.Findings- In the survey conducted, participants were asked, ‘which payment methods do you prefer for online shopping? the " question " is given the opportunity to select more than one option. The answers given are grouped as ”Virtual payment (virtual payment by credit card only, wire transfer/EFT, mobile payment or virtual card/virtual wallet options at least one)“, ”Payment at the door (credit card only or cash at the door payment options at least one)“, ”Both virtual and door payment“ and ”Other". As a result of the survey, it was determined that 216 (43.5%) of the 496 respondents who answered the relevant question used a virtual payment method, 46 (9.3%) used a payment method at the door, 211 (42.5%) used both a virtual and a payment method at the door, and 23 (4.6%) chose the other option. Whether payment methods changed according to gender was measured by chi-square analysis. As a result of Chi-square analysis, it was found that p=0.007<α=0.01 and it was determined that payment methods may vary depending on gender.Conclusion- As a result of the findings obtained from the analysis results, it is noted that about 86% of the participants use virtual payment methods, while only about 9.3% physically pay at the door. As a result of the Chi-square analysis, it was observed that men were more likely than expected to not choose a particular method and make payments both in virtual and at the door, while women were more selective about virtual payment methods.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: PressAcademia Procedia
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/pap/issue/71641/1153250
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2572789
