Makale Başlığı: THE LAND OWNERSHIP AT TYPES OF SOYURGHAL AND TANHA IN THE BUKHARA UZBEK KHANATE
Özet: Uzbek Khanate was founded in 1500 years by Muhammed Shaybani Khan. Bukhara was the capital of Uzbek Khanate, and the lineage of the founder dynasty went back to Shiban Khan and Uzbek Khan (1312-1340) from rulers of the Golden Horde. Nearly a hundred years of rule of the Shaybanid Dynasty ended with the death of Abdulmumin Khan in 1598. The new power holders were the Astrakhanids (The Janids) descended from Genghis Khan and were related to the Shaybanids. Both dynasties formed their government systems according to having cultural heritage and the conditions of the migrated region. This understanding is also organized by the land ownership system of the Uzbek Khanate. The land ownership in the Bukhara Uzbek Khanate can be classified as the ikta, soyurghal, tanha, and the foundation lands. In this paper two types of land ownership, soyurghal and tanha will be examined. It will be discussed that both practices were successive of each other and changed in the process depending on the political conditions with examples.In Turkish, Mongol, Iranian and Islamic countries, granting the small or large-scale territories form state land which expanded thanks to conquests or the income from a domain without regarding the class by the ruler in time determines the general framework of the soyurghal system. Shaybanids used the ikta and soyurghal systems for a hundred years. Then Astrakhanids narrowed the scope of the soyurghal. In this period, soyurghal turned into grants given only to the leaders of the clergy and the scholars. On the other hand, tanha refers to the land grants made to the dynasty members, high-ranking soldiers and Turk and Mongol’s begs.Muhammed Shaybani Khan strengthened the model of power-sharing and limitation of authority among the Abu’l-Khayrids Sultans with the soyurghal system that gave many financial and administrative rights and granting immunity. In addition, he apportioned the captured lands to high-ranking soldiers and begs to encourage the army and reward the victorious soldiers. The Shaybanid Khanate, who took over the Timurid heritage made significant progress in the north, west and south-west directions by applying this system and expanding the country’s borders as much as possible. The Uzbek Khans expanded the scope of soyurghal intending to cultivate the country’s lands and declared the sultans not joined in the conquests as shareholders. Thus, the successor sultans supported permanent grants by the land ownership policy since Muhammed Shaybani Khan.Unfortunately, this policy made more important the gains of individuals than the state’s interests. Over time, the local governments have attempted to use their power against the central authority. The governments could not prevent the soyurghal system from weakening the central authority day by day. Tanha System, which was applied during Astrakhanid Dynasty, enabled the sultans and begs to benefit widely from the region’s land allocated to their names, just like the soyurghal. In the beginning, the rulers tried to prevent the negativities in the soyurghal and tanha system by placing some restrictions on the concessionaires. However, they transformed the country’s lands into private property expanding the powers of begs over time. Consequently the soyurghal and tanha systems did not serve the strong state idea of the Uzbek khans who cared about the central authority. These practices paved the way for localization and feudal order beyond their purpose.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gülay Karadağ ÇINAR']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Genel Türk Tarihi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gttad/issue/71320/1062553
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2210948
