Makale Başlığı: Basic Qualifications of Primary and Secondary Schools Where the Industry  4.0 Process Journalist Will Educated
Özet: Industry 4.0 is infecting the whole world. Industry 4.0 is a process involving various automation systems and new production technologies. This process, which will change the data exchange methods, is thought to affect the employees of the journalism sector as well. Industry 4.0, which shows itself in economic, social and political spheres with technological innovations, has become a widespread view that will lead to new forms of communication. Preparations must be made across the country to keep up with these forms of communication. In the preparatory phase, journalists as the important sources of information of the public, have a great responsibility. In order to fulfill the task of transferring information, journalistic sector employees must be dominated by the subject. Subject domination is only possible with basic education. In this study, the necessity of primary and secondary education institutions which to train journalists appropriate 4.0 process in Turkey is foreseen. It is aimed to discuss the features and qualifications that these educational institutions should have. Firstly the concept of the institution was defined and the history and development of the basic education institutions were explained. In the second part of the study, the basic educational institutions that existed during the first three revolutions of the industry were mentioned and the suitability of these institutions for the fourth revolution has been discussed. In the last part, it is foreseen the features and qualifications which an educational institution that can train 4.0 process journalist should have. In this part, firstly, the infrastructural and contextual shortcomings of the institutions provide education to journalists are determined; then a new educational institution is designed to overcome these shortcomings. As a methodology; literature searching and editing methods are used
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Haziran 2018
Dergi ismi: Akademia Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asj/issue/40224/479030
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/568047
