Makale Başlığı: Bosnia and Herzegovina's National Integrity and its European Religious, Ideological and Political Clash
Özet: The study analyzes B&H's historical, religious, ideological, and political contests, its post-war integrity, the EU path, and the "majority Muslim European country" paradigm. First, the paper argues that ethnoreligious polarization, political radicalism, and the secessionist processes influence conflict transformation, sociopolitical stagnation, and ineffectual EU process. Second, the regional and international rhetorics related to inaccurate claims of B&H's Islamic radicalism/terrorism is a metaphor for historical/current Balkan religious and ideological hybrid conflicts. Third, it represents the securitization of Islam in a broader sociopolitical context. Fourth, B&H's electoral law and regional geopolitical interference influence the country's integrity due to secessionism and the potential of creating a third-Croat entity.  The jingoism and ethnoreligious nationalism persisted, creating "three" prospective antagonistic collectivities generated by ethnopolitics. Preserving B&H's integrity, i.e., the country's anti-dissolution model, and B&H's EU membership, is European security against new violence and inter-religious wars. B&H, as the most critical multiethnic discourse of the Region, is in a perpetuating crisis; the ethnopolitical conflicts, multiple memory politics- genocide denial, and secessionism chronologies. The historical unification of B&H peoples and state existence confirms that secessionist narratives are not artificial but an inherently ethnoreligious hegemonic companion of Croat and Serbian nationalism. Numerous regional intellectuals' narratives (i.e., Andrić, Njegoš) combined anti-Islam discourses on polarization between the "civilized" West and the "despotic" East, historiographically, ideologically, and politically. The Ottoman period was marked as a legacy of foreign and undesirable power and had to be eliminated from European civilization, contributing to the B&H nation-state's intricacy. The inaccurate rhetorics related to B&H's Islamic fundamentalism/terrorism (a security threat to the EU) by regional political leaders (i.e., Tuđman, Grabar-Kitarovic) are a metaphor for religious and ideological hybrid conflicts. B&H's Bosniaks and Croats should initiate an indicative ethical dialogue of "conflict transformation" regarding the non-functional election legislation - without "external" interference (Croatia). Milorad Dodik exploits European Islamophobia, emphasizes the identity link between B&H Muslims and the Turks, cites Bosniaks as Muslims in public life, and discriminates against inter-ethnic marriages ("cancer" on the otherwise clean and healthy tissue of all three ethnoreligious groups). It fits the discoursive radical ideology due to ethnoreligious political antagonism and polarization of religious identities. The hostile and incorrect declarations of a few international- EU leaders regarding Islamic extremism in B&H represent the securitization of Islam in a broader sociopolitical context. The autochthonous European Muslims, one of the world's most liberal Muslim nations, Bosniaks, are a potential linkage for peace dialogue between Europe and the Muslim world. The hypothesis that B&H will never be divided because the West - EU will not allow a "100 percent" Muslim state is not grounded. The international failure in B&H requires inclusive liberal conditions for returning to state-building, reconciliation, and developing constructive group and political relationships.
Yazar isimleri: ['Faruk HADŽİĆ']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of International Eastern European Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jiees/issue/70593/1008807
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2023603
