Makale Başlığı: Experimental Investigation of the Effect of Plunge Pipe Diameter on Cyclone Performance in Cyclone Separators
Özet: Cyclone separators are used in the process of separating the solid from the gas by forming a vortex with the gas stream. Cyclones are located in facilities such as iron and steel, cement, construction. According to their entry shape, cyclones are tangential, axial and snail shaped, and the ones with the most use are tangential entry cyclones. Cyclones have a tangential inlet to form vortexes, an axial clean gas outlet and a conical structure for particle evacuation. The fact that cyclones have a simple structure that can withstand high temperature and high pressure is seen as an economic advantage. According to the parameters affecting cyclone performance, dust collection efficiency and pressure loss have an important place. Factors affecting pressure loss according to these parameters; cyclone entry cross-section, plunge pipe diameter and friction in the inner wall. In addition, the size of solid particles in the gas is less than 5μm, which adversely affects the dust retention efficiency. In this study, dust retention efficiency and pressure loss were examined by changing the plunge pipe diameter of the cyclone. According to the design modeling of the cyclone, 3 different plunge pipe diameters were selected and the dimensions of the subduction pipe diameter; Ø88.9 mm, Ø114,3 and Ø139.7mm. According to the data obtained, three different flow analyzes were performed in the Solidworks Flow Simulation program. In addition, experimental studies were conducted and the results were compared. As a result of the experimental study, Ø114.3 mm provided the best dust collection efficiency according to three different plunge pipe diameters.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşegül BALİKCİ', 'Tarkan KOCA']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Avrupa Bilim ve Teknoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ejosat/issue/71415/1133616
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2498327
