Makale Başlığı: The Predictive Power of Biological Markers for Malignant Thyroid Nodules. Single-Center Experience
Özet: Background: Thyroid nodules are mostly benign. Although it varies by region, 5.4% of nodules in men and 6.5% of nodules in women may be malignant. In rural regions where a radiologist, an endocrine surgeon, a cytologist, and an endocrinologist are not present, difficulties may be experienced in the management of thyroid nodules. Objectives: This present study aims to determine if it is possible to comment on whether the nodule is malignant by evaluating the biological markers in patients with thyroid nodules.Methods: We reviewed retrospectively the data of patients between January 2019 and September 2020 who underwent total thyroidectomy in terms of thyroid ultrasonography results, thyroid fine-needle aspiration biopsy results, neutrophil, platelet, lymphocyte, red blood cell, and mean erythrocyte volume (MCV) values, histopathological examination results of thyroid specimens. Subsequently, we calculated Mentzer index, Systemic immune-inflammatory index, and neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio for each patient.Results: 140 patients were included in the study. 110 (78.6%) of the patients were female and 30 (21.4%) were male. The mean age of the patients was 48 ± 12.5 (20-76). There was no statistically significant difference in Mentzer index, Systemic inflammatory index, and neutrophil-lymphocyte ratios between patients with malignant and benign thyroid nodules.Conclusion: Biological markers have limited predictive power in the management of thyroid nodules. Therefore, the use of biomarkers that we have studied in the treatment of thyroid nodules does not seem possible at present.
Yazar isimleri: ['Recayi CAPOGLU', 'Zulfu BAYHAN', 'Emre GÖNÜLLÜ', 'Murat COSKUN', 'Ahmet Tarık HARMANTEPE', 'Furkan KUCUK', 'Hakan DEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Biotechnology and Strategic Health Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bshr/issue/72769/1165757
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2611085
