Makale Başlığı: The Effects of Piaget's Theory of Cognitive Development on Adolescent Religious Development: Elkind's Approach
Özet: Developmental studies have led to the study of education and psychology, especially since the second half of the last century. The basis of these studies is based on the assumption of the existence of cer-tain, successive invariant stages at different periods of the individual's life cycle. Accordingly, each in-dividual goes through these stages in the same order, although there are individual differences, these stages are structurally similar. In particular, Piaget's researches based on the semi-clinical method ha-ve significantly determined the framework of studies in this field. Although some of Piaget's assumpti-ons are discussed today, the understanding that he brought remains important in this area. In parallel with its influence in the field of education and psychology, developmental studies have es-tablished a basis that has also been adopted and applied in the field of religious development. The most important studies in the field of religious development were conducted in the second half of the twentieth century, in particular by Ronald Goldman, David Elkind, James Fowler and Fritz Oser. These researchers have shaped their work mainly based on a Piagistic framework. In these studies, especially Elkind's studies contain examples that best reflect the Piagistic understanding both as a method and as an approach. Elkind has discussed in detail the elements that shape the religious thought and unders-tanding of the individual in the life process from childhood to youth. Prayer and religious experiences are the most important concepts he focuses on in these studies. Elkind has come closer to the Piagistic line with the semi-clinical method he has used in his studies. By applying this method to individuals with different religious affiliations (Protestant, Catholic, Jewish), Elkind, who also obtained some comparative data, has revealed a research understanding that is far from theological biases. In all these studies, Elkind found some age-related similarities and divi-ded them into certain periods. He found four stages of religious development in which each stage coin-cides with a quest: the search for protection/patronage, the search for representation, the search for re-lationships, and the search for meaning (understanding). One of the most important focuses of Elkind is the field of adolescent religious development. Expressing his adolescent religious development with the search for meaning, Elkind notes that the religions that help him when it comes to people who chal-lenge people's search for holistic meaning offer people some solutions in this regard. His studies of adolescent egocentrism, which he considers regardless of the field of religious development, have also developed over time towards a certain understanding of religious development. He has also adapted similar lines of adolescent development to the field of religious development.  David Elkind, who has important works in the field of religious development, has discussed in detail the period of religious development, especially adolescence. The period of adolescence coincides with Piaget's period of abstract operations. According to Elkind, the most important need that arises in the religious development of adolescence with the development of abstract thinking capacity is the search for meaning. Adolescence refers to the search for meaning in the field of religion, as well as in all areas of life. Despite its unique character, religious development in Elkind's work bears similarities with ot-her areas of development. Elkind's research understanding, supported by various experimental stu-dies, provides important data in terms of correctly understanding the religious development of adoles-cence and inspiring religious education practices. The purpose of this study is to reveal Elkind's cont-ribution to the field of religious development by using first-hand sources. Other studies in the field of religious development will also be briefly discussed. The study was carried out using the literature re-view method.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet SU']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Mesned İlahiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mesned/issue/70518/1078189
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2271600
