Makale Başlığı: Geri Çekildi:
                                                                        Effects of structure, purity and alignment on the heat conduction properties of carbon nanotubes and fibers
Özet: The increasing popularity of carbon nanotubes has created a demand for greater scientific understanding of the characteristics of thermal transport in nanostructured materials. However, the effects of impurities, misalignments, and structure factors on the thermal conductivity of carbon nanotube films and fibers are still poorly understood. Carbon nanotube films and fibers were produced, and the parallel thermal conductance technique was employed to determine the thermal conductivity. The effects of carbon nanotube structure, purity, and alignment on the thermal conductivity of carbon films and fibers were investigated to understand the characteristics of thermal transport in the nanostructured material. The importance of bulk density and cross-sectional area was determined experimentally. The results indicated that the prepared carbon nanotube films and fibers are very efficient at conducting heat. The structure, purity, and alignment of carbon nanotubes play a fundamentally important role in determining the heat conduction properties of carbon films and fibers. Single-walled carbon nanotube films and fibers generally have high thermal conductivity. The presence of non-carbonaceous impurities degrades the thermal performance due to the low degree of bundle contact. The thermal conductivity may present power law dependence with temperature. The specific thermal conductivity decreases with increasing bulk density. At room temperature, a maximum specific thermal conductivity is obtained but Umklapp scattering occurs. The specific thermal conductivity of carbon nanotube fibers is significantly higher than that of carbon nanotube films due to the increased degree of bundle alignment.
Yazar isimleri: ['Junjie CHEN']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Muş Alparslan Üniversitesi Fen Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/msufbd/issue/68818/1065544
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2222563
