Makale Başlığı: Is Niacine a Potential Agent to Decrease Dyslipidemia Risk?
Özet: Cardiovascular diseases are the most common non-communicable diseases with the highest prevalence and mortality rate in the all around the world.  There are some risk factors -such as modifiable and non-modifiable- which are effective on the development of these diseases. Modifiable risk factors are closely related to dyslipidemia, which forms the basis of cardiovascular diseases. Dyslipidemia is characterized by high triacylglycerol (TAG) and free fatty acids, decreased high density lipoprotein (HDL) level and function, increased low density lipoprotein (LDL) level and apolipoprotein B (Apo B) production. There is a relation between dyslipidemia with nutritional and physical activity behaviors. In particular, adherence to the Mediterranean diet and lifestyle behaviors instead of the Western diet can potentially decrease dyslipidemia risk. On the other hand, some of micronutrients such as niacin can potentially decrease dyslipidemia risk as a nutritional supplement. Niacin -which is a water-soluble, B group vitamin- can potentially decrease TAG, free fatty acids, Apo B, very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) and LDL levels and increase HDL and apolipoprotein A (Apo A) levels in plasma. Due to these potential beneficial effects, niacin acts a pharmacological agent to decrease both of dyslipidemia risk and symptoms. However, niacin is used more than tolerable upper intake level (35 mg/day) to show these potential effects (1-3 g). This situation may cause to ‘niacin flush’ symptom. In addition, there is a need for the studies which aim to determine the negative effects of high dose niacin intake on human’s health in long-term. In this review article, potential effects of the niacin on dyslipidemia are examined within the current literature.
Yazar isimleri: ['Taygun DAYI', 'Mustafa HOCA']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: İstanbul Gelişim Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/igusabder/issue/72351/1112685
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2411580
