Makale Başlığı: Rethinking Imperialism and Hegemonia in the Globalization Process
Özet: The process of globalization is an important phenomenon that causes changes in the way of life, thinking and behavior of human beings. Undoubtedly, this process of change has revealed the necessity of rethinking concepts and phenomena in social sciences and in the discipline of international relations. The main purpose of this study; “Has the process of globalization changed the phenomena of imperialism and hegemony, and if so, what is the extent of this change?” to analyze the problem. The basic assumption of the study; With the globalization process, the phenomena of imperialism and hegemony have undergone a large-scale structural change. The basis of this assumption is that the traditional state-centered perspective is insufficient to explain the phenomena of imperialism and hegemony due to the changes created by the globalization process. It can be said that especially non-state actors such as multinational companies are leading this change. Considering their annual budgets, number of employees, and most importantly, their effectiveness and decisive role in international relations, it can be predicted that in the medium and long term, imperial or hegemon structures may be multinational corporations rather than states. Multinational companies will make this structural transformation not alone, but together with developed countries with a possible foresight. In this context, it can be said that other non-state actors, especially multinational companies, will have a share as a new and powerful actor in shaping the phenomena of imperialism and hegemony that have been reduced to states.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bilal KARABULUT', 'Şafak OĞUZ']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Ankara Hacı Bayram Veli Üniversitesi İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Fakültesi  Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ahbvuibfd/issue/72340/1100881
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2363728
