Makale Başlığı: Investigation of the Relationship between Serum Ferritin Levels, Lung Involvement and Treatment Methods in COVID 19 Patients: A Retrospective Study
Özet: Aim: COVID-19 disease was identified as cases of pneumonia of unknown origin in China in 2019. It has been reported that after the Covid 19 virus entered the body, the immune system cell was over-activated and there was an intense release of cytokines and the clinical picture worsened accordingly. In addition there is a relationship between ferritin level and cytokine release. In the present study, it was aimed to examine the relationship between the presence of lung involvement and treatment and ferritin levels in cases diagnosed with Covid 19 in the emergency department.Material and Methods: Cases aged 18 years and older who applied to the emergency department with positive SARS-CoV-2 PCR analysis were included in the study. Demographic characteristics, serum ferritin levels, lung tomography reports (according to the Co-Rads Classification) and treatment modalities (outpatient treatment, inpatient treatment in the service  and treatment in the intensive care unit) of the cases were examined.Results: It was determined that patients with pulmonary involvement had an increased treated in intensive care (p<0.001). It was determined that the serum ferritin level of the patients treated in the service was significantly higher than those of the outpatients (p<0.001). The serum ferritin levels of the patients treated in the intensive care unit were also found to be significantly higher than the serum ferritin levels of the inpatient group (p<0.001).  Conclusion: Cytokine storm is seen in Covid 19 patients. This situation worsens the clinical condition of the patients and causes an increase ferritin level. Serum ferritin levels are increased in patients with lung involvement and increased with  severity of the disease. It is recommended to measure serum ferritin levels in the routine follow-ups of Covid 19 patients.
Yazar isimleri: ['Şeyda Tuba SAVRUN', 'Atakan SAVRUN']
Yayın Yılı: 22 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Medical Records
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/medr/issue/72317/1115815
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2424444
