Makale Başlığı: Manifestation of Animal Image in Visual Arts in the Context of Becoming Animal
Özet: The purpose of this study is to discuss the relationship forms with non-human animals throughout the history of culture and to interpret metamorphoses of animal images in visual arts, through Dionysian aesthetics together with Gilles Deleuze’s and Felix Guattari’s concept of “becoming-animal” which finds its origins in the philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche. In the research, artworks from various visual practices such as painting, video art, installation, and film, are analyzed in the context of artistic representation of animal images and the concept of “becoming-animal”. The study points out certain moments in the transformation of animal images through the history of visual arts. Finally, it focuses on the works produced after the second half of the 20th century. Eventually, it will pay a specific attention to the works of Francis Bacon, Kiki Smith, Matthew Barney, Jenny Saville, Hayao Miyazaki, Lars von Trier, and Werner Herzog.In the works of these artists, animality shows itself as Dionysian immanence. In painting, the human- animal identity that Bacon and Saville establish through flesh and body results in an intense plastic representation that they create with their use of paint. Kiki Smith’s bonds with the nature through the female body create a more symbolic interaction with animality. Barney’s video-art work The Order, on the other hand, breaks the boundaries between humans and animals through concepts such as hybridity and otherness. In cinema, Lars von Trier’s The Antichrist, by using animality, reveals the futility of human effort and rationalism, which are relentless struggles with the chaotic structure of nature. Similarly, by eliciting Wolf-girl San’s relations with her large animal-family, Miyazaki portrays the devastating consequences of rebellion against nature in Princess Mononoke. Finally, Herzog’s Grizzly Man portrays a journey of an archaic, self-sacrificing anti-hero against the Anthropocene worldview. As a result, it is seen that anthropocentrism begins to collapse, the border between human and animal loses its certainty, and with the influence of postmodernism, this uncertainty is reflected as dissolution in artistic production both in form and content.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nesli TÜRK']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Kültür ve İletişim
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kulturveiletisim/issue/72692/1136800
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2511187
