Makale Başlığı: Molecular characterization based on coat protein gene of Beet soil-borne virus isolates obtained from the soils of sugar beet growing areas in Turkey
Özet: Sugar beet (Beta vulgaris L.) is widely grown in Turkey as a raw material for the sugar industry. The beet plant is infected by some soil-borne viruses, which are transmitted by the plasmodiophorid vector Polymyxa betae Keskin. Among the members of the genus Pomovirus in the family Virgaviridae, Beet soil-borne virus (BSBV) and Beet virus Q (BVQ) only infect sugar beet. In Turkey, BSBV was the first reported in 2003 and then was found to be very common (49.8%) in the sugar beet production areas. In the current study, 10 BSBV-infested soil samples were randomly selected according to their geographic origin, and the isolates derived from the soil samples by bait plant technique were molecularly analyzed. RT-PCR performed using BSBV-CP specific primers and sequence analysis revealed that the CP regions of all Turkish BSBV isolates consisted of 495 nucleotides and 164 amino acid (aa) residues. Interestingly, 9 BSBV isolates obtained from different locations had the same aa identity (100%) when those isolates were compared with each other. However, the isolate YZT-355S obtained from Yozgat province shared 98.17% aa identity with the corresponding sequences of other isolates, and had differences at the 92., 121. and 122. aa positions of the CP region when compared with other Turkish and previously identified BSBV isolates in the world. Besides this, phylogenetic analysis of 24 BSBV isolates (10 from this study and 14 retrieved from GenBank) showed that all isolates were clustered in four main groups, I, II, III and IV. Turkish isolates belonged to group I were divided into two subgroup (subgroup a, c) while the other Turkish isolates were clustered into group III and group IV.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ebru ERKAN', 'Nazlı KUTLUK YILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 22 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Toprak Bilimi ve Bitki Besleme Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tbbbd/issue/70446/1062915
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2212479
