Makale Başlığı: PILOT STUDY ON THE USE OF WEARABLE TECHNOLOGIES IN EMERGENCY HEALTH SERVICES
Özet: Introduction: Technologies that offer solutions that have the potential to facilitate human life are increasing in the health sector. Health-related applications that have emerged in recent years are an indicator of how technology affects this field. As technology advances, ideas that will reshape the health sector may emerge. Various problems may arise in the delivery of emergency health services. These problems are generally security, malpractice, forensic cases, violence, communication problems with patients and their relatives, etc. are such problems. We think that the use of a portable and lightweight device that can record images and sound, which is a wearable technology that we think can be the solution to these problems, can solve the problems.Objective: We aimed to measure the opinions of healthcare professionals about the use of a portable and lightweight device that can record images and sound, which is a wearable technology that we think can be a solution to the problems of healthcare professionals providing emergency healthcare.Materials and Methods: Our research is a descriptive study. It was carried out with the participation of health professionals operating in our province. No sample was selected and a total of 158 health professionals working in the field group of emergency health services were reached.Results: The mean age of the participants was measured as 26.86±5.98 years. 83.5% (n=132) of the participants want to use a sound recording camera system in the work area for their personal safety. 74.7% (n=18) of the participants reported that the camera they would use in the work area would make them feel safe. 83.3% of the participants (n=130) stated that the camera system with sound recording feature that they will use while performing their duties, physical, verbal, etc. that can be applied to them. They reported that it could have a deterrent quality for acts of violence such as 63.3% of the participants (n=101) reported that the system to be used could prevent malpractice that may occur during the applications to the patient. They stated that the records obtained from the system should be kept for 5.00±3.54 years.Conclusion: It has been determined that a system with video and sound recording is needed by the emergency personnel. We believe that this system used can reduce undesirable events such as violence and malpractice that can be applied to healthcare workers.Keywords: Health Professionals, Wearable Technologies, Violence, Malpractice
Yazar isimleri: ['Ali SERT', 'Serkan KÖKSOY', 'Mümin POLAT']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: TOGÜ Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/togusagbilderg/issue/72864/1084201
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2295433
