Makale Başlığı: The Meanings of the Preposition ‘Bal’ in the Qur’ān and the Problem of Its Translation into Turkish
Özet: Language has a constantly changing and developing structure. Every word in the language has a meaning and value. These meanings are enriched with other concepts with which the words relate. One of the most important linguistic features of the Arabic Language and the Qur’ān is polysemy. The meanings expressed by polysemous words are determined by the testimony of the context. Due to the structure of the language, polysemous words express meanings close to each other as well as contain opposite meanings. Which of these meanings will be preferred is determined by presumptions. It is of great importance to determine the meanings expressed by polysemous words according to their context in understanding the Qur’ān and transferring it to languages other than Arabic through translations. This feature occurs in prepositions as well as nouns and verbs. Prepositions are the main elements that make up the sentence. They facilitate the construction of the text by creating a semantic relationship between the sentences that make up the text. Since the early periods, very in-depth studies have been carried out on the use of prepositions used in the Arabic language and in the Qur’ān and the richness of their meanings. Information about prepositions is scattered in grammatical works, tafsīr and uṣūl al-fiqh works, and there are also independent studies that only examine prepositions. In terms of the translation studies, It is inevitable for the accuracy of the translation to determine the meanings of the words in the source language according to their positions in the sentence and to find the eastern equivalent in the target language. When this is not achieved, the meaning of the text in the source language will either be lost while being transferred to the target language, or the meanings that the owner of the main text did not mean will be transferred to the target language. This situation will cause misunderstanding of the source text and also cause confusion for the readers of the target language. In this study, the preposition “/بلBal”, which is widely used in the Arabic language and the Qur’ān and plays an important role in understanding the will of Allah in the Qur’ān, will be evaluated in terms of its usage and meanings. Then the problems in the translation of the meanings of this preposition into Turkish will be tried to be determined by examining some selected Qur’ān translations.
Yazar isimleri: ['Servet DEMİRBAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Eskiyeni
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/eskiyeni/issue/72632/1039336
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2143256
