Makale Başlığı: Profitability of Melon Processing Among Women In Enugu State, Nigeria
Özet: The processing of melon is a means of livelihood in Nigeria, especially among rural women. Its role cannot be overemphasised in the life of rural women who are vulnerable to poverty and food insecurity. Despite the vital role of melon processing on women’s livelihoods, little has been done on its economic potential. This study, therefore, analysed the economics and drivers of profit level of melon processing among women processors in Enugu state, Nigeria. A four-stage sampling technique was used to select a sample of 150 respondents. Data collected were analysed using descriptive statistics, gross margin, logistic and multiple regressions. The results revealed that the majority of melon processors were married, adult, well experienced and had melon processing as their major occupation. Marital status, household size, cooperative memberships, income from melon processing and price of processed melon were the positive factors influencing melon processing while educational qualification negatively influenced it. Women melon processors had a net profit of N18,163.72 (US $47.68) per 50kg melon processed, return on capital invested of 0.39 and an operating ratio of 0.69. Thus, melon processing among the women was a profitable enterprise. The profitability of melon processing was influenced positively by market access, major occupation, price of processed melon and marital status but negatively influenced by the cost of processing and transportation cost. The study recommends government intervention by providing conducive and accessible markets, subsidising shelling machines and transportation cost to reduce the cost of processing which will, in turn, enhance the profitability of melon processing.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ridwan MUKAİLA', 'Angela OBETTA']
Yayın Yılı: 13 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Tekirdağ Ziraat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jotaf/issue/72560/1049260
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2161146
