Makale Başlığı: Examining the relationship between  organizational silence levels of teachers working  in high schools and teacher autonomy behaviors
Özet: The aim of this research is to examine the relationship between the organizational silence levels of teachers working in public secondary education institutions and their autonomy behaviors. In this study, the relational survey method, one of the quantitative research methods, was used. The sample of the research consists of 506 teachers working in secondary education institutions in Konya province Meram District in the 2020-2021 academic year. Research data were collected with the “Personal Information Form”, “Organizational Silence Scale” and “Teacher Autonomy Scale”. Pearson Correlation Analysis and Multiple Linear Regression Analysis were used in the analysis of the data. Organizational silence is a situation in which teachers do not reflect their feelings, stress, anxiety and proposals about the work they are responsible for at school or about different activities of the school. Teacher autonomy, on the other hand, is that teachers have a certain area of authority and freedom, their authority to decide on matters concerning their profession, their involvement in the planning and development of education, and their participation in management processes. The silence of teachers at school is directly related to the sense of autonomy. If teachers feel autonomous in their schools, they share their thoughts during the change phases that will occur in their schools, and they work in cooperation with their teammates. If teachers do not feel autonomous at school, they are pushed into silence and therefore loneliness in the organization, and as a result, it is seen that teachers in this situation isolate themselves from school. According to the research findings, a moderately significant negative correlation was found between the organizational silence levels of teachers working in secondary education institutions and the autonomous behaviors of teachers. Organizational silence levels of teachers working at secondary education level are a significant predictor of teacher autonomy behaviors.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Alper YOLCU']
Yayın Yılı: 2 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kocaeli Üniversitesi Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kuje/issue/73669/1136436
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2509840
