Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Load and Sliding Speed on Friction and Abrasion Performances of Pure and Glass Fiber Added PEEK Polymer
Özet: Plastic-based bushings and bearings are used in some parts of the machines used in different sectors of the industry. In applications where high temperature, corrosion, chemical resistance and wear resistance are required, choosing a right material is very important for the service life of the machine element. In this study, the tribological performances of pure poly-ether-ether-ketone (PEEK) polymer and 30% by weight glass fiber (GF) reinforced poly-ether-ether-ketone (PEEK-30GF) composite were investigated. The materials used in the experiments are in the form of rods produced for industrial purposes by the extrusion method. Tribological experiments were carried out 2000 m under dry sliding conditions at room temperature using a pin-on-disc wear test device. Two different loads (30 N and 60 N) and four different speeds (1, 2, 3 and 4 m s-1) were used in the experiments. As a result of the experiments, the friction coefficient, pin temperature and specific wear rate of pure PEEK polymer and 30% glass fiber reinforced PEEK composite were determined. As a result of the experiments, with the increase of the sliding speed, the wear rate of both pure PEEK and glass fiber reinforced PEEK composite increased, while the friction coefficient values decreased. At low load (30 N) and speed (1 m s-1), PEEK composite was found to be 2.46 times more wear resistant than pure PEEK polymer. In addition, microstructure examinations of the wear surface of the test materials were carried out using an optical microscope. Adhesive wear at low loads and speeds and abrasive wear mechanisms at high speeds and loads were observed for both test materials.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet MASLAVİ', 'Hüseyin ÜNAL', 'Alim KAŞTAN']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Iğdır Üniversitesi Fen Bilimleri Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jist/issue/73493/1131369
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2489113
