Makale Başlığı: CEVÂLIKİ'S CRITICISM ON ZECCÂC
Özet: Cevâlikî was the authority of his time in the field of Arabic language and literature. He worked as a professor in the Nizamiye madrasah and famous figures such as Semânî, İbnu'l-Enbarî and Ebu'l-Ferec İbnu'l-Cevzi were his students. Baghdad by himself he is a scholar who proud of his syntax and lexicon.He took lessons of literature from Ebû Zekeriyya et-Tabrîzî. He gained the love of Muktafi-Billah, one of the Abbasid caliphs, and he benefited from caliph himself by reading some of his books.He has written many useful works in the field of syntax, lexicon and literature. The name of the most important work he wrote is el-Mu‘arreb. The work has been in great demand since the time it was copyrighted.In this work, Cevâlikî he's took the words that came from other languages to arabic language. 732 words of foreign origin are explained in alphabetical order in the dictionary, which consists of twenty-six sections. Ebû Mansûr al-Cevâlikî defended Saleb and Zeccâc made objections to Sa'leb in some of the issues that Sa'leb mentioned in his work al-Fasîh. He tried to refute his criticisms. The reason behind Zeccaj's criticism of Sa'leb on some issues should probably be sought in the fact that Zeccaj belongs to the Basra language school and Sa'leb belongs to the Kufe language school. As it is known, the disagreement of the Basra and Kufe language schools is, as it showed itself in the syntax issues also it showed itself in the terms which used in the syntax sciences. Our work consists of two parts. In the first part of our study, information about the life, scientific personality and works of Cevâlikî, one of the leading Arab linguists, is given. In the second part, some information about er-Red 'ale'z-Zeccâc, which is our study subject, is given, and then wihin the framework of the work Cevâlikî's criticisms of Zeccâc, which he includes in this work, are discussed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mahfuz GEYLANİ']
Yayın Yılı: 18 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Kilitbahir
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kilitbahir/issue/72601/1130742
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2486416
