Makale Başlığı: Comparison of the effects of general and regional anesthesia on postoperative quality of life in elderly patients after transurethral prostate resection
Özet: Objective: In our study, it was investigated whether the anesthesia method applied to patients with lower urinary tract symptoms due to benign prostatic hypertrophy and who will undergo transurethral resection of the prostate has effects on postoperative quality of life.Method: A total of 60 patients scheduled for TUR-P were included in the study. The patients were divided into two groups as those receiving spinal anesthesia and those receiving general anesthesia. We recorded demographic data and preoperative and perioperative parameters. We evaluated the postoperative quality of life and satisfaction of the patients using the Short Form-36 scale.Results: There was no statistically significant difference between the two groups in terms of demographic data and hemodynamic changes. There was a higher rate of patients who consumed alcohol and smoked in the general anesthesia group (p<0.05). The perioperative hemodynamic findings of the patients were similar in both groups (p>0.05). The preoperative and postoperative SF-36 subdomain scores were compared within the spinal anesthesia group, there was a statistically significant difference in all parameters (p<0.001). The preoperative and postoperative SF-36 subdomain scores were compared within the general anesthesia group, statistically significant differences were observed in vitality, mental health, and social functioning (p<0.05). There was no statistically significant difference between the preoperative SF-36 subdomain scores of the spinal and general anesthesia group (p>0.05). In the spinal anesthesia group, the postoperative first month scores were statistically significantly higher in the sub-areas, except for the vitality scores, compared to the general anesthesia group (p<0.05).Conclusion: It is important to ensure that geriatric patients return to their daily life activities in the early period after TUR-P. According to our results, spinal anesthesia was found to be superior to general anesthesia in terms of the quality of life of the patients.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sedef Gülçin URAL', 'Fatih GOKALP', 'Sinan KARAZİNDİYANĞLU', 'İbrahim Hakkı TÖR']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Mustafa Kemal Üniversitesi Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mkutfd/issue/73508/1025384
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2088133
