Makale Başlığı: BIBLIOMETRIC ANALYSIS OF STUDIES ON ASKING QUESTIONS
Özet: In this study it was aimed to examine the studies in the literature on asking questions in terms of bibliometric features and revealing the characteristics of the examined publications according to some criteria intended. In line with this purpose, the studies carried out between 2001 and 2022 number of publications by years, publication type, publication language, distribution of publications to the country, distribution of publications according to institutions, author information of publications, keyword analysis and relationship status of the publications shown, authors, relationship status of sources, etc. investigated aspects. Data were obtained from the Scopus database. The data were searched using the keywords "asking questions", "asking question skill", "questioning strategies" in the database. Search feature is limited to document title, abstract and keyword. As a result of the search, 3702 studies conducted between 2001-2022 were reached. Since most of these studies were not suitable for the research purpose, the filtering feature of the database was used. As a result, 144 publications were included in the scope of the study. In the analysis of the data, bibliometric analysis was preferred and the VOSviewer (Version 1.6.18) package program was used. Findings were visualized and interpreted through figures, tables and maps created in VOSviewer. According to the results of the research, most of the publications on asking questions between the years 2001-2022 were produced recently. Considering the distribution of publications by country, studies conducted in Turkey were found. The majority of the studies are clustered in journals on education. According to the findings obtained from the keyword analysis, the publications; It is thought that it is done in order to examine the exam questions, teacher questions or to classify them in terms of taxonomics.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ali GÖÇER', 'Akife KURT']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Hatay Mustafa Kemal Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/hmkusbed/issue/70758/1092476
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2328971
