Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Motivation on The Dark Triad Personality Traits and Burnout Relationships
Özet: The most important factor in organizations is to get as much efficiency from human resources as possible and to benefit from trained manpower. While high motivation levels in employees provide individual benefits such as job satisfaction, being productive, and achieving success; It also contributes greatly to businesses with its aspects such as increasing productivity, having a low personnel turnover rate, and employing qualified personnel. For this, it is extremely important to develop and implement human resources strategies and to increase the motivation of employees. Motivation can be achieved by choosing different goals or motives in work environments. The choice of different goals and motives may be related to the level of burnout syndrome. In this study, the dark triad personality traits (Machiavellianism, narcissism, and psychopathy) and their relations with the motivation mechanisms experienced by the employees at the workplace and the level of burnout, and the mediating role of motivation in the relationship between the dark triad personality traits and burnout were examined. The "Short Dark Triad Personality Test", "Motivation Sources Inventory" and "Burnout Inventory" scales were used to measure the employees' dark triad personality traits, work motivation, and burnout levels. The population of the research consists of employees working in various branches of a private bank operating in the Marmara Region; the sample consisted of Human Resources (HR) recruiters. The research was completed with the participation of 250 people. It was predicted that the dark triad personality traits would predict the development of certain sources of motivation in the workplace and to some extent be related to the burnout syndrome among HR recruiters. In addition, the mediating role of motivation in the relationship between dark triad personality traits and burnout was investigated. As a result; It was determined that there was a significant relationship between dark triad personality traits and motivation, between motivation and burnout, and motivation had a mediating role in the relationship between dark triad personality traits and burnout.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kezban TALAK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İnsan ve Toplum Bilimleri Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/itobiad/issue/72362/1120846
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2445337
