Makale Başlığı: FEMALE STUDENTS IN VILLAGE INSTITUTES (THEIR PROCESSES OF ADMISSION, EDUCATION AND PROFESSIONAL LIFE)
Özet: In the first years of the Republic of Turkey, attempts were made to solve the problem of delivering education to the villagers. For this purpose, “Village Institutes” were officially established on April 17, 1940. Girls of village origin were enrolled and trained in institutes to be cultivated as teachers for villages. The implementation of coeducation in the institutes and the rumors of the immoral relationships between male and female students allegedly taking place there made it difficult to find female students to train in the institutes. Despite all these negativities, it was observed that the number of female students admitted to institutes increased over time. Education in the institutes was carried out with a focus on work and production, by dividing the students into groups and by collaborating. The courses were given in the form of “cultural courses”, “technical courses and studies” and “agricultural courses” for 44 hours. Cultural and agricultural courses were conducted by male and female students together. Technical courses and studies were given by dividing the students according to their abilities and interests. The technical courses of female students were divided into three groups within the scope of “village, home and handicrafts”. These groups were “tailoring”, “knitting-weaving” and “agricultural arts”. It was explained that the female teachers assigned to the villages after graduating from the institute guided the women in the villages tried to find remedies for diseases, and stood against all kinds of improprieties caused by ignorance. Most of the girls who graduated from village institutes became knowledgeable, self-standing, free and enlightened Turkish women, and shed light on society, thanks to the education opportunity offered by the village institutes.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 17 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Çağdaş Türkiye Tarihi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cttad/issue/67459/1050787
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2165892
