Makale Başlığı: Wedding Ceremony in Ivory Coast
Özet: From the past to the present, marriage has had an important place in every society. The family institution is the oldest and most rooted institution of humanity. The peace and stability of societies depends, first of all, on the solid foundations of the family institution. For this reason, all societies in the history of humanity have applied to a number of measures regulating the institution of the family since the first periods. In addition, since marriage has a religious aspect, this becomes even more important in Muslim societies. Traditional marriage has an important place from the past to the present and differs according to the religious structures of the tribes. There are different tribes and religions in Ivory Coast. Marriages are held between tribes. However, no matter what religion they belong to, the tribes have their own customs and everyone practices their own wedding tradition during marriage as in many other fields. Muslims, on the other hand, both act according to their religion and apply their own traditions in their own culture. In addition, some marriage customs of some Muslim tribes have changed over time with Islam. In connection with the effectiveness of customs in marriage practices, the goods given as Mahr in the customs of some Muslim tribes may be from haram goods such as wine, while the goods given as Mahr in the customs of some non-Muslim tribes may be among the goods that are considered halal according to Muslims.  In the article, the general structure on the ivory coast is shown. There are more than sixty tribes in Ivory and these tribes are grouped under four main tribes compared to the tribes whose languages and customs are close to each other. The wedding ceremony of the most prominent tribe (Malinke Tribe) in terms of politics, trade and social life was shown. After that, the marriage practices were examined according to the Islamic law and the Ivory Coast law.
Yazar isimleri: ['Souleymane COULIBALY']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Universal Journal of Theology
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ujte/issue/69914/1114852
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2420394
