Makale Başlığı: Hıdırellez Coin Believed to Bring Good Luck in Modern Turkey
Özet: Coinage was invented to easily pay the salaries of soldiers and civil servants and to keep a record ofthese actions more easily. Since it facilitated the work, it has also been preferred for the payment of taxes andtributes later. Over time, coin has turned into the equivalent of all types of labor and services and the valuedetermined for each item of goods, and in this context, it became an invariable basic payment instrument. While, at first, coins were minted only using precious metals, later coins were minted from worthless metals as well, and this situation increased the recognition of the coin. As its role in daily life increased, it has been observed that it is used for different purposes due to social, cultural, political, religious, and individual reasons. The most common cases are when money turns into an ideal protector and is used as an amulet. This is sometimes due to its metal, its form, sometimes to the iconography and writings it carries on it, or to the identity and power of the issuing authority. It is believed that the coin brings good luck, abundance, fertility and gives strength as well as protecting people from evil and evil eye. In addition to the physical properties of the coin, the natural magic attributed to it, as understood from the proverb "money attracts money", is also effective and turns the coin into an ideal talisman. Observing the transformation phases of a coin into an amulet or talisman is relatively easy since we know what the magical properties have been attributed to it since ancient times. This helps us interpret rituals involving money today. Although the coin owns positive power, protects people from evil and brings abundance, this is not always enough. The best example of this is the Hıdırellez money. Hıdırellez is celebrated almost everywhere in Turkey. In addition, it is one of the most significant spring holidays celebrated in a wide geography from the Balkans to the Middle East. The day of Hıdırellez, which is believed to host a meeting between Hızır and İlyas every year on the evening of May 5, is synonymous with abundance. In the evening of that day, Hızır visits the houses one by one and accepts the wishes. For those who believe in him, Hızır, with his presence, is the one who takes the lead in the revival of nature and the greening of the dried up. In difficult situations, in times of disaster, Hızır emerges as a savior and helper. He tests people, rewards the good and purehearted, and brings blessings and abundance to everything he touches. It is precisely because of this last feature that a red purse containing money is usually hung on the rose branch on the night of May 5 every year. Sometimes this pouch is left at the bottom of the rose. Sometimes, instead of a purse, an open wallet or a purse with money is put. Although rare, coins are also known to be buried. The money taken back early in the morning of May 6 is now lucky because Hızır’s hand has touched it. It is stored for a year. it is mostly stored in a corner of the wallet or in a bag. In order not to mix with other coins, it is usually either painted with red nail polish, sewn into a cloth, or taped over. Measures to protect money also led to the appearance of individual actions. With the new Hıdırellez, old lucky coins lose their talisman feature. However, they are often kept in a corner of the house. These old coins are sometimes thrown into the sea, running water, and sometimes given to the poor or left somewhere on the road for the same reason. There are also those who spend the money because they are out of date or put them in a purse in the new Hıdırellez to turn them into lucky money again. This study shows that the belief that Hızır and the money he touched are auspicious is quite common. The phenomenon is accepted, taught, and kept alive by individuals regardless of gender or class.
Yazar isimleri: ['Dinçer LENGER']
Yayın Yılı: 11 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Milli Folklor
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/millifolklor/issue/73825/1121372
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2447478
