Makale Başlığı: STRUCTURAL AND FUNCTIONAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE TRADITIONAL GOLDEN DAYS IN ADANA
Özet: Traditional golden days are one of the important activities in terms of reflecting the spirit of togetherness and meeting the socialization needs of Turkish women. The traditional golden days are not an event that emerged out of nowhere in an urban setting. The origin of the traditioanl golden days is based on the women’s meetings that have been carried out pre-existing time. Traditional golden days, one of the women’s meetings, are held at certain time intervals according to the availability of woman participants. Traditional golden days are provide economic support to woman participants and this respect, it is different from activities of visiting each other for women. It has been seen that the traditional golden days are one of the women’s meetings that have become widespread in Adana. The data belonging the traditional golden days in Adana were obtained through attendant observation and interviews with resource people in 2019. The aim of this study is to investigate the traditional golden days in Adana from structural (participants, time, place, preparations and practices fort he golden day) and functional (socail and psychological function, economic function, cultural function) point of view with the data obtained from the field research. According to this study, it is becoming more and more attractive to have golden days outside the home. In terms of its functions, the economic function comes to the fore in the traditional golden days in Adana. In addition, the groups formed by participants through communication networks have an important role in their organizations of golden day.
Yazar isimleri: ['Esra TARHAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Hatay Mustafa Kemal Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/hmkusbed/issue/70758/1079280
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2275809
