Makale Başlığı: The Opinions of Primary School Teachers on the Use of Web 2.0 Tools in Turkish Teaching
Özet: Web 2.0 tools, which have entered our lives thanks to technology, have become a part of the education process in terms of their usability both in distance education during the pandemic process and in face-to-face education. It is stated that Web 2.0 applications can increase the acquisition of permanent knowledge, make the teaching process dynamic, simplify the vocabulary learning and learning process, and increase the efficiency of teaching. It is emphasized that Web 2.0 tools in Turkish teaching include various games and activities, making the course interesting and contributing to permanent learning. With this research, it is aimed to determine the opinions of the primary school teachers who guide students about the use of Web 2.0 tools in Turkish lessons. While the demographic of the research was composed of primary school teachers in Şanlıurfa, the sample consisted of 322 randomly selected primary school teachers in this research study. The research was carried out in the survey model, which is one of the quantitative research methods. Personal information form and teacher questionnaire were used as data collection tools. As a result of the research, it was determined that teachers benefited from Web 2.0 tools in teaching Turkish. It has been determined that the use of Web 2.0 tools in Turkish teaching has many positive contributions, but it has some negative effects. With Web 2.0 tools, technical problems may occur while working, or working efficiency may decrease because not all computers have the same features. Web 2.0 tools are preferred in terms of being student-oriented, abstracting concrete concepts, ensuring active participation of students, increasing interaction between students, supporting creative thinking skills, contributing to the development of problem solving skills. This research is expected to be a source for research on Web 2.0 tools.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yalçın BAY', 'Büşra BADEMCİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Temel Eğitim Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iperj/issue/73693/1151572
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2567523
