Makale Başlığı: Feature points-based image registration between satellite imagery and aerial  images of agricultural land
Özet: Rapid advancement in remote sensing sensors has resulted in an enormous increase in the use of satellite  imagery  SI  and images taken from unmanned aerial vehicles  UAVs  in a wide range of remote sensing applications.  These applications include urban planning, environment monitoring, map updating, change detection, and precision  agriculture. This paper focuses on an agricultural application of SI and UAV images. SI-UAV images possess high  temporal, textural, and intensity differences due to rapid changes in agricultural crops with the passage of time. Feature  points such as scale invariant feature transform  SIFT , oriented FAST and rotated BRIEF  ORB , and speeded-up  robust features  SURF  are not invariant to such differences and underperform in SI-UAV image registration. To deal  with this problem, we propose a new method that combines the strength of nearest neighbor  NN  and brute force  BF   descriptor matching strategies to register SI?UAV images. The proposed method is named NN-BF. For NN-BF first  corresponding feature point descriptor matches are identified between SI-UAV images of the training set with overlap  error. Then the corresponding descriptors are matched with the descriptors of SI images of the test set with NN  strategy. The resulting descriptor matches are then further matched with the descriptors of UAV images of the test  set using BF strategy. Finally, the descriptor matches obtained are processed with RANSAC to remove outliers and  estimate a homography for image registration. Experiments are performed on an agricultural land image dataset. The  experimental results show that the NN-BF method improves SIFT, SURF, and ORB feature point performances and  also outperforms recently proposed feature matching strategies for remote sensing images. SIFT on average obtains 6.1%  and 18.9% better precision scores than SURF and ORB with NN-BF, respectively. SIFT also obtains lower root mean  square error than SURF and ORB with NN-BF.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Mayıs 2020
Dergi ismi: Turkish Journal of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tbtkelektrik/issue/54388/739708
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1110718
