Makale Başlığı: The Evaluation of Repairs Executed in Beyşehir Eşrefoğlu Mosque in Consideration of IIWC 2017 Principles
Özet: The architectural heritage of wood in Turkey is very diverse in terms of style and technique. Although the traditional wooden pillar mosques, which date back to the 13th century and are mostly found in the Central Anatolia Region, have a great importance in terms of Turkish architectural history, they have not been the subject of detailed research. In this context, Beyşehir Eşrefoğlu Mosque, which is considered to be the largest and oldest wooden pillared mosque in Turkey, has been chosen as an exemplary structure. The mosque, which was built in the late 13th century, survived, almost intact, thanks to both the details of the construction technique and the repair works implemented during its long history. In this study, first of all, a methodology for the study of the architectural wooden heritage is proposed. In this article, it is aimed to determine and evaluate one of the analyzes within the scope of the methodology and the repair works carried out in different periods in the structure. The evaluation criteria are based on the principles of the ICOMOS Wood Committee, published in 2017, which are internationally accepted and recommended to be implemented. These different periods also show the changing perceptions and attitudes on conservation approaches. The results of the evaluation reveal which period the applications were successful and which ones were unsuccessful and the underlying reasons for this. While the evaluation of the repair history and the practices in the light of current criteria can be used to determine traditional conservation techniques, a more comprehensive examination of the repair history when making conservation decisions will make a great contribution to achieving more successful repair results.
Yazar isimleri: ['Süheyla KOÇ', 'Deniz MAZLUM']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Vakanüvis - Uluslararası Tarih Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/vakanuvis/issue/72861/1165231
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2609057
