Makale Başlığı: The Criticism Method, Al-Jarh wal-Ta’dil Wordings and Their Denotations in Abu Ishaq al-Juzjani’s Book “Ahvalu’r-Rijal”
Özet: Based on its value and function in the hadith detection and criticism system, narrator investigations started in a period that can be considered early, and a huge entire corpus has been formed in this field in the historical process. The determination of the contents and indications of the words, which concentrated in the 3rd century Hijri and constituted the basis for the criticism of the rijal, is closely related to the conditions and scientific developments of the period in which they emerged. Therefore, bringing together the words of criticism with their historical origins and determining their natural and special contexts will allow them to be used correctly in the hadith.Abû Ishaq al-Juzjânî (d. 259), who lived in Damascus, was one of the critics of the period, who lived in the 3rd century Hijri, when the science of Jarh-ta’dil began to gain a systematic structure and who wrote works in this field. One of the jarh and ta'dil scholars, Juzjânî's work "Ahvâlu'r-rijâl", which is an example of the "duafâ" literature, draws attention with its extreme criticisms especially towards the people of bid'ah. In addition, it is worth investigating as he is the first critic to define the rule that is generally accepted in hadith methodology and that if a mubtadiʻ narrator is dai, his narration will not be respected.Juzjânî mentioned in the first part of the book the sects of bid'at including first Khawârij in his work which usually includes weak, matruq, and the people of bid'at, he and he dismissed them because of their sectarian thoughts. On the other hand, he classified the narrators according to their towns, and criticized mostly the people of Qufa who had a Shiite inclination, and then the narrators from Basra who belonged to the Qadariyya sect. He referred to the opinions of the jarh-ta'dil imams of his time, and he conveyed the evaluations of previous scholars sometimes with isnad and sometimes without proof, since he was well known by the scholars. In many places, he also mentioned the name, tag, nisba, nickname and town information about the rijal, and sometimes while conveying the information about the rijal's criticism, he also pointed out the hadith tolerance method of the narrator. Within the framework of the criticism method, Juzjânî sometimes explained the reason for the jarh, and sometimes included the "mukayyad", that is, conditional criticism, which he made due to a certain attribute or narration of the narrator. While explaining his judgment on the narrator, he also quoted the evaluations of other criticizing scholars who supported his view. Sometimes he preferred to make comparisons between the criticisms of the narrators.In the study, because of the absence of the attributes of sidq and ‘adl in general, being known for his bid'at, and known for the commonness of mistakes and weakness of his narrations, the narrations of the narrators whose narrations would not be accepted are included. Various jarh words have been widely used as single (mufrad) or compound (murakkab) about these narrators. However, he tried to create a unique terminology with some usages while criticizing the narrators who were especially from the people of bid'ah.Although "Ahvalu'r-rijal" usually includes weak, matruq and lying ravis, it has also sometimes mentioned siqa ones in order to explain its bid'at alone. He ruled that some ravis are reliable and saduk, except for the opinion of bid'at, with words such as ”siqa, sabt, saduq, mutamashak", he made a distinction between the idea of the sect of ravi and the hadith narration. However, due to the fact that many of the requests he mentioned in his work are from the people of bid'at and he over-evaluates them, he has been considered one of the thankful individuals in the knowledge of jarh-taʿdīl by the method of criticism. However, considering the opinion of Juzjânî that the narrations will not be accepted if the people of bid'at are a daî, it becomes more meaningful that he is excessive in his criticisms due to prudence.Since the 3rd century Hijri, many jarh- taʿdīl scholars have sought his views, narrated from him and quoted him in their works, showing that his criticisms are respected and that his work is an important resource for the "duafā" literature. However, in the early period by some scholars, known for his negative attitudes towards Ali and Ahl al-Bayt, Juzjânî was later accused of belonging to sects such as Nâsıbî and Harûrî. This situation has led to evaluations that he is prejudiced against the narrators of Qufa and that his jarh statements about them cannot be accepted. This research aims to determine Juzjani's rijal criticism method in particular “Ahvalu'r-rical”. Taking into account the rijal criticisms in the work, it was tried to reach a conclusion about the method of criticism, bringing together the jerh- taʿdīl words with their historical origins, determining and indicating their natural and special contexts.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nevzat AYDIN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Amasya İlahiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/amailad/issue/70416/1098643
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2353926
