Makale Başlığı: A radiological and clinical overview of the effects of COVID-19 on the male reproductive system: micro V Doppler, spermiogram and international erectile function form survey results
Özet: Introduction: Micro V Doppler is a different technique from the conventional Doppler US method, which reveals the small vessel structure developed in recent years. We planned to reveal whether there are significant difference between spermiogram test, scrotal US, Micro V Doppler and international erectile function form questionnaire results between patients who had recently COVID-19 and the control group.Material and Method: Our study included 45 patients who had recently had COVID-19 infection, and 45 control patients. Spermiogram test, scrotal US, Micro V Doppler and erectile dysfunction score, orgasmic function score, sexual desire score, sexual satisfaction score, and general satisfaction scores were evaluated for our patients and control groups included in our study. Results: On scrotal US, there was no sequelae in the parenchyma in all patients (n=45, 100%) who had experienced COVID-19. When the spermiogram tests of the control group and our patients with COVID-19 infection were compared, the presence of oligozoospermia, leukocytospermia and other abnormal positive findings was similar between the two groups (p>0.005). Micro V Doppler findings of the control group and our patients who did not have COVID-19 infection were similar. Sexual Desire and sexual satisfaction scores of patients with COVID-19 were significantly lower than the control group without COVID-19 infection (p<0.05), however, there was no significant difference between the groups in terms of erectile dysfunction, orgasmic function and overall satisfaction.Conclusion: COVID-19 does not cause a permanent significant difference in the morphological structure of testicles on Micro V Doppler examination and spermiogram tests. Sexual desire and sexual satisfaction scores are decreased in patients who had recently COVID-19.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatma Zeynep ARSLAN', 'İbrahim HACIBEY', 'Mehmet KARAGÜLLE', 'Gül Gizem KAYA', 'Muslu Kazım KÖREZ']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Health Sciences and Medicine
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jhsm/issue/73169/1176650
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2656255
