Makale Başlığı: Bilingual Turkish teaching book for soldiers by Reinhold Gräter
Özet: With the Turks entering the European lands and acquiring their homeland, Europeans began to write various works in order to get to recognize the Turks, learn Turkish and exist in missionary activities. These works, which are generally bilingual, also have trilingual and quadlingual ones. In these works, it is possible to come across information about the grammar rules of Turkish, dictionaries, speech texts on different subjects, Turkish proverbs, Nasreddin Hodja anecdotes, poems by different poets, prayer texts and official correspondence samples. The first of these is Hans Schiltberger's Reisebuch in the light of determinations. The work was written in 1427 but was published in Augsburg in 1460. Meninski's named Thesaurus Linguarum Orientalium Turcicae, Arabicae [et] Persicae […]: Lexicon Turcico-ArabicoPersicum[…]&Grammatica Turcica, published in Vienna in 1680 and Complementum Thesauri Linguarum Orientalium seu Onomasticum Latino-Turcico-Arabico-Persicum published in Vienna in 1687 His works and the work of Camilla Ruziçka Ostoiç named Türkisch-Deutsches Wörterbuch mit Transcription des Türkischen, published in Vienna in 1789, are among the best examples of bilingual, trilingual and quadlingual works. With the increase and development of relations between Turks and Europeans, the characteristics of these works began to change. Das nötigste Türkisch: kurze Grammatik und Sammlung der gebräuchlichsten Wörter by Reinhold Gräter; The work für den Feldgebrauch zusammengestellt was prepared in order to teach Turkish to German soldiers who fought with the Turks in the World War I and to compile the most important words that they may need in daily life. The work is prepared in German-Turkish and it consists of two parts. It includes in the first part, grammar rules; in the second part, the thematically prepared dictionary. In the article, the vocabulary in the dictionary section of the work has been revealed and the sound caracteristics seen in the words have been determined.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1192520
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2722519
