Makale Başlığı: THE OBLIGATION OF THE OWNER OF THE IMMOVABLE PROPERTY NOT TO DAMAGE THE NEIGHBORING IMMOVABLES DURING THE EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION
Özet: The right of property is a real right that gives individuals the widest authority to use, utilize and dispose of what they own within the limits determined by the legal order, and imposes various obligations on them. The right to property is restricted due to the obligations imposed on the owner. In the Turkish Civil Code, property is divided into two as movable property and immovable property in terms of subject. The subject of property of immovable is specified in Article 704 of the Law. Other things constitute the subject of property of movable. In the Turkish Civil Code, various restrictions have been introduced in the property of immovables in favor of neighbors and against owners in order to prevent problems that may arise due to neighborly relations. With these restrictions, it is aimed that neighbors do not disturb each other in mutual relations, do not violate each other’s property or personality rights, and at the same time help each other. Article 738 of the Law regulates the obligation not to damage neighboring immovables during the excavating and construction. The owner, who uses his/her property right in violation of this provision, shall be liable within the scope of Article 730 of the Law against persons who are harmed or face the risk of being harmed. Persons who are harmed or who are in danger of being harmed can file a lawsuit against the owner in order to restore the situation, to eliminate the danger or the damage they have suffered within the scope of Article 730, in order to protect their interests. However, in case of damage to the neighboring immovables with the construction, Article 725 on encroaching construction is applied. According to this article, if a suitable price is paid for constructions that are not objected to within fifteen days, built in good faith and justified by the circumstances and conditions, the owner of the neighboring immovable will bear the obligation. Because the labor and money spent for the construction are important not only for the owner of the construction, but also for economic and social value of the society. Within the scope of all these provisions, this study has been carried out in order to explain how the obligation not to damage the neighboring immovables during the excavation and construction finds its place in practice.
Yazar isimleri: ['Suheyl Rebi KURT']
Yayın Yılı: 12 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Yıldırım Beyazıt Hukuk Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ybuhukuk/issue/72531/1087476
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2308237
