Makale Başlığı: Approaches for Crisis Intervention in Spiritual Counseling and Care
Özet: The aim of the article is to evaluate the meaning of crisis, and the approaches for dealing with it from the perspective of psychology and spiritual counseling. In addition, the methods and practices that should be in the spiritual counselor's toolbox were also examined. In this context, this article, which also examines crisis therapies in terms of clinical psychology and spiritual counseling and guidance literature, is a theoretical study aiming to contribute theoretically to spiritual counseling and guidance practices. Spiritual counseling and guidance, unlike psychological counseling, is the realization of the necessary support by using religious and spiritual references in order to regain the lost sense of control in coping with the crises experienced by the individual due to illness, disability, old age or natural disasters. Similarly, clinical psychology also strives for human healing. However, these secular models try to understand the individual by accepting that the meaning of life for people from different cultures and beliefs is the same regardless of God. While psychoanalytic theory connects events to objects, cognitive therapies turn inward and rediscover the subject of behavior. These schemas, which develop as a result of experiences spent with people important in the first years of life, become active when faced with stressful events and determine their reaction by offering shortcut methods and ways. With McIntosh, religion was also accepted as a cognitive schema. The most basic schema of religion is the God schema, which defines the unique God concept of each religion and individual. If this scheme is not positive, negative emotions such as blaming God for crises, feeling abandoned, and feeling guilty about God being perceived as punishing may be triggered. Throughout the article, crisis counseling practices in spiritual counseling have been tried to be formed within the framework of the concept of God image schema. As a matter of fact, the psychology of religion draws strength from the theory of divine action thought and the theory of cognitive orientation, which are religious coping methods in times of crisis. In this direction, the relationship between the image of God, which is the connection point between God and the individual, with crisis experiences has been investigated throughout the article. Finally, in the article; it has been evaluated that the right God-imagination schema is the basic element in making sense of the individual's vital crises and coping with the crisis. With the created positive God imagination scheme, it is seen that the person has a short cut to go through many events in his/her life, especially the struggle with the crisis.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zeynep KARLIK', 'Naci KULA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Manevi Danışmanlık ve Rehberlik Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tmdrd/issue/71039/1094333
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2336341
