Makale Başlığı: Discourse of Poverty in the Context of New Racism
Özet: A hundred years ago, when Walter Lippmann was talking about the picturesin our minds, he was drawing attention to one of the troubling features of the media.Today, the news media continue to propagate certain prejudices that serve theduality between us and them and produce a discourse that normalizes the marginalizationof certain segments of society. While this discourse of the news mediamaintains and reproduces the dominant ideology, it imprisons certain identities incertain pictures. The reduction of identities to these prejudiced and stereotypical images serves the new racism. New racism is the name given to codes, logics andideologies that facilitate, normalize and naturalize power imbalances, thus pavingthe way for permanent inequalities, despite the absence of formalized discriminatorypractices in the 21st century. From this perspective, this study examineshow new racism permeates the news on poverty. 18 news stories about poverty ininternet news sites with the highest visiting rates (Hürriyet, Milliyet, Sözcü) wereanalyzed according to Teun van Dijk’s critical discourse analysis method. In thenews analyzed, it was seen that the poor were represented as threatening, disturbing,aggressive, deviant and criminal people. Analysis of the news showed that althoughthe topic on which poverty is discussed in the news varies, the assumptionthat poverty is viewed primarily as an individual problem is widespread. It hasbeen seen that the poor are negatively portrayed and humiliated in the news examined,and the poverty problem is not addressed at the macro level in accordancewith the dominant ideology. This shows that “poor” as an identity is the target ofthe new racism.
Yazar isimleri: ['Işıl DEMİR ÇARKACI', 'Seçil DEREN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Middle Black Sea Journal of Communication Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mbsjcs/issue/73616/1188595
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2706466
