Makale Başlığı: A Governor on the North-East Border of the Ottoman Empire: Ishak Pasha and in the Period of the Çıldır Governorship his Relationship with the Açıkbaş (Imereti) Kingdom (1695-1703)
Özet: During the reign of Murad III, some strategic provinces were established in the terms of military and logistics, in the regions wehere were conquered as a result of the wars with the Safavids. One of these provinces is Çıldır Province, which was founded on July 17, 1579. The first governor of the province was Minuchir who took the name of Mustafa after converting to Islam. The Ottoman State, through Çıldır Province, shaped its domination strategy over the South Caucasus region, and its Caucasian policy, especially its relations with the states and provinces in Western Georgia. The administrators of Çıldır Province is responsible for preventing conflicts between the Dadyan, Açıkbaş, Guril and Abaza Principalities in the West Georgia region, resolving Border disputes, appointing their administrators, and collecting taxes. Çıldır Province was governed by the many members of the same family since its foundation until Ishak Pasha became the governor in 1695. Among these people, Sefer Pasha (named Beka before converting to Islam) and Ishak Pasha come into prominence. Although there were interruption, Ishak Pasha governed the region for more than fifty years. While Ishak Pasha was a local figure in the first years of his governorship, he emerged as a regional figure in the later period. The reflections of this situation can be under stood from the intense relations that Ishak Pasha maintained with the Principality of Açıkbaş (Imereti) in Western Georgia. Our article examine the relationships between of Ishak Pasha with the Açıkbaş in Western Georgia, which is one of the factors that turned his into a regional figure.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet KAZDAL']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Kalemname
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kalemname/issue/70521/1130644
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2485999
