Makale Başlığı: An Example of the Interpreting of Folklore Texts with Positive Psychology Concepts: Lullabies about Love
Özet: Positive psychology basically aims to enable people to have positive experiences throughout their lives and to protect their mental health with actions that increase their subjective well-being. Lullabies are products of oral culture that are introduced in the early childhood years, and with their short content, they are a language-culture carrier, a cultural memory transmitter. Lullabies are the genre that can carry the ancient feeling of love and the value of universal love to the present day. The purpose of the current study is to deal with lullabies about love, which are one of the anonymous folk literature genres in the context of psychology and literature, on the basis of the concepts of positive psychology, to interpret the results through the functional theory, one of the folklore theories, so that it will be an example for interdisciplinary studies and contribute to the literature. In this regard, the research question of the study was worded as “What are the positive effects of lullabies about love on human life and human spirit? What are their functions in this context?” The subject of the research was approached with the “hermeneutic” “basic qualitative research” design as the texts would be addressed through the basic concepts of positive psychology and then interpreted. In other words, the texts of the lullabies, which are products of oral culture, were received and interpreted through the concepts of happiness, subjective well-being and secure attachment, which formed the framework of the thematic context, in the light of scientific data, determined on the basis of the expert opinions of positive psychology. Lullabies with the theme of love have important functions for the protection of mental health and happiness, which positive psychology cares about, in the context of positive childhood experience. Thus, it is thought that lullabies about love will provide support to positive psychology at the level of clinical applications in a “metaphorical sense”. For the widespread effect of the study, it can be emphasized that oral folk literature genres such as fairy tales and legends can be examined with the basic concepts of positive psychology.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Folklor/Edebiyat
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/fe/issue/73311/1196556
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2739006
