Makale Başlığı: A potential application on reducing microorganism load in apricot drying: Ultraviolet C (UVC) + Hot air drying
Özet: Objective: In this study, the effects of ultraviolet light and hot air drying applications on surface microbial load (psychrophilic and mesophilic aerobic bacteria, yeast and mold) of three different apricot varieties (Prunus armenica L., var. Hacıhaliloğlu, Prunus armenica L., var. Kabaaşı, Prunus armenica L., var. Şekerpare) investigated. Materials and Methods: The average ultraviolet light dose rate was 6.70 W/m2 and the radiation exposure (dosage) was 2.01 kJ/m2. Drying was carried out at 70 °C until the moisture content of apricots decreased to 19%. Results: As a result of the study, it was observed that the initial microbial load of Şekerpare variety was clearly higher than the other two apricot varieties. Ultraviolet light and hot air drying applications  reduced the natural microflora on the surface of apricots. This reduction was found to be significant only in Şekerpare variety for hot air drying application. While the effect of ultraviolet light application was insignificant in terms of yeast and mold in all varieties, it was important for mesophilic and psychrophilic aerobic bacteria only in Şekerpare variety, and for total microbial load in Şekerpare and Hacıhaliloğlu varieties. In the case of application of ultraviolet light and subsequent hot air drying, the decrease in the number of mesophilic aerobic bacteria, yeast and mold was found to be significant in Şekerpare variety, and in all varieties in terms of psychrophilic aerobic bacteria numbers and total microbial load. Conclusion: The most effective method is to apply UVC and hot air drying application together. It has also been determined that the order of activity changes when these methods are used separately, and the applications are most effective in reducing the number of psychrophilic aerobic bacteria.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gülsüm Ebru ÖZER UYAR', 'Ceylan KOÇKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Akademik Ziraat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/azd/issue/71633/904952
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1668851
