Makale Başlığı: THE ELECTIONS IN İÇEL (MERSİN) IN THE PERIOD OF GOVERNORSHIP OF DEMOCRATIC PARTY.
Özet: The period where the Democratic Party (DP) was on the political power is an important phase of the Turkish Political Life. This study focusses on İçel region in the changing Turkish political life of the 1950 elections. The relationships between the parties is assessed from the perspective of the ruling party and the opposition in the period of 1950, 1954 and finally 1957 which was the last general election of the Democratic Party. The election campaigns of the parties and the candidate determination processes are also discussed. İçel is an harbour city of the Çukurova region which connects the region to the Mediterranean. Fort his reason it represents a dynamic instance in the political conflict of the whole election processes. DP became significant in the political life of the city with the passege of the multy party political system. It was also a city supporting DP in all of the elections between the period of 1950-60. The great majority of the İçel population participated the elections and the competition between the parties were very dense. Refik Koraltan who was among the founding members of the DP thouh was entitled in two places preferred the İçel parliamentarism and continued his work as a member of parliament in the İçel region in the TBMM. Before the 1954 elections the division within the DP resulted with the resignation of the members of the parliament and the party members and some changes happened both in 1954 and 1957 elections in the members of the parliament. Although the opposition parties continued their work in the İçel region in each election period, their efforts did not change the results of the elections.
Yazar isimleri: ['Birgül BOZKURT', 'İbrahim BOZKURT']
Yayın Yılı: 13 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Tarih ve Günce
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tarihvegunce/issue/72558/1132939
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2495547
