Makale Başlığı: An Analysis on Religious Musical Works in Mecmuâ-i Sâz ü Söz
Özet: The focus of this work is on the religious music works in Mecmuâ-i Sâz ü Söz, one of the important works of the 17th century. The 34 leading repertoire components of Turkish religious music such as ilahi (hymn), tesbih, tevhid, and ayin-i şerif were analyzed through the dynamics of the lyrics, especially the numerical distribution in the work, the signs used in the musical score writing, maqam, usul (rhythmic patterns) and musical form structure. In the light of the evaluations made, religious types are arranged in nine different chapters in Mecmuâ-i Sâz ü Söz; especially an umbrella headgear where ilahi (hymn) and tesbih was used; tevhid is represented by an example that matches its meaning; It was determined that the ayin-i şerif consists of the third part of the present-day ritual form. In addition, these works contain the clef and the usul indicators and accidental signs. It is also possible to see notational signs such as repeat, fermata, slur, and extension tie. While the melody organization of religious works takes place in fifteen different maqams, Hüseyni and Neva maqams stand out quantitatively. On the other hand, the representation rate of the Uşşak and Segâh maqams, which are frequently used in today's religious music repertoire, is very low. While the organization of time takes place over five different usul, Düyek is ahead here. The existence of works whose usul cannot be determined is striking. When the works are evaluated in terms of musical form, it is seen that the ilahi, tevhid, and ayin-i şerif have a limited musical expression compared to the tesbihs, and the tesbihs differ from other genres in terms of their form structure. While the dominance of the structure with aruz wezni stands out in terms of lyrics, the semantic universe of religious works is mainly constructed by the poetic forms of gazel, murabba, and kosma.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ubeydullah İŞLER', 'Ömer SATIR']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ekim 2021
Dergi ismi: Güzel Sanatlar Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ataunigsed/issue/65570/938182
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1771765
