Makale Başlığı: VINCENT VAN GOGH’S WOMAN PORTRAITS
Özet: Vincent van Gogh is one of the most important painters who have made his mark in the history of art with the works he produced in a short period of ten years. Vincent van Gogh is one of the most important painters who have written his name in the history of art with the works he produced in a short period of ten years. Who gained fame with many landscapes, still lifes, portraits and self-portraits throughout his artistic life, Van Gogh’s portraits attention among his painting and drawing works. One of the most notable factors is the artist’s successful management of the plastic process and effective transfer of emotion in his self-portraits and portraits of people living in villages or cities. Although Van Gogh studied his first portraits in order to improve the plastic process, later portrait painting became important for him in a semantic context.In this study, starting from the problem of analyzing the formal infrastructure in Vincent van Gogh’s portraits of women, it is aimed to question the existence of the change process of portraits in the plastic context depending on time and place. In the questioning process, the artist’s way of interpreting the form, the use of color and light was focused on by using the plastic analysis method with a qualitative approach. In the first stage of the study, the portraits of women were divided according to the years, then according to the places where Van Gogh lived, and examined in six sections.In the research, it has been observed that the most obvious breaking points of the artist’s changes in the plastic process occur according to the place where he is located rather than the temporal separation. In addition, it was determined that while Van Gogh initially focused on examining the light on the face of the figure with a limited color palette, he later used more colors and focused on capturing the expression of the model rather than the formal interpretation.
Yazar isimleri: ['Tuğba KODAL']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Akdeniz Sanat
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/akdenizsanat/issue/71562/1119458
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2439751
