Makale Başlığı: Metaphor and Metaphoric Style in Aristotle
Özet: In most studies conducted in Turkish, all three “metaphors,” “istiara” and “eğretileme” are considered as synonyms.Although it is known that these concepts are not the same by the experts who have knowledge ofthe subject, the attitude that they are synonymous persists. As a reason for this, it is shown that metaphor isoften met with the word metaphor in Arabic sources. For this reason, the subject of how the Arabic metaphorentered was examined in terms of Aristotle's two concepts of De Poetica and Rhetoric metaphor. Aristotle is athinker and a man of letters who influenced both the period he lived in and the ages after him with his mentalityand his works. In the first three centuries of Hijri, a real scientific mobilization started in the great scientificcenters of the Islamic world such as Bukhara, Damascus and Cairo, especially in the Bayt al-Hikma in Baghdad.As a result, the works of Indian, Persian and Ancient Greek scholars were translated into Arabic. Aristotle'sworks such as De Poetica and Rhetoric also got their share from this translation activity. In the translation ofthese works into Arabic, it is aimed to understand the ijaz of the Qur'an, as well as to influence the membersof other religions in the region and to achieve a uniform structure in the Islamic geography. Various rhetoricmentioned in Aristotle's works were first assimilated by Muslim scholars and then reinterpreted. Therefore,it is quite natural for rhetorical scholars to be influenced by Aristotle's thoughts. In this study, the concept of"metaphor", which is the basis of metaphor based on analogy in Arabic Rhetoric, which Aristotle frequentlyemphasizes in his works called Rhetoric and Poetics, has been examined.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Turcology Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/turcology/issue/73283/1196732
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2739741
