Makale Başlığı: A Contribution to Ottoman Tafsir Culture: An Analysis of Mehmed Fawzî Efendi's Tafsir of Surah Tefrîj al-qalaq fî tafsîri sûrat al-Falaq from an ishari Perspective
Özet: In this study, Mehmed Fevzi Efendi, one of the important figures who lived in the nineteenth century of the Ottoman Empire, and his work called Tefrîcu'l-qalaq fî tefsîri sûreti'l-felaq are discussed. For this purpose, firstly, information is given about the life of the author, the period in which he lived and his works. Then, information about its place in the field of tafseer and tasavvuf (mysticism) is presented. Before giving information about the author's tafseer called Tefrîcu'l-qalaq, some commentaries on Surah Felaq, which were written before, are mentioned due to the fact that it is an exegesis of Surah Felaq. After that, the ishari aspect of Tefrîcu'l-qalaq is emphasized. In the work, which is the interpretation of Surah Felaq, the way the verses are handled and interpreted is handled. In the work, attention is drawn to the interpretations made with the ishari method along with the methods of dirâyî and rivâyî. The author examines these interpretations by giving examples from the lives of those who can be called as people of taqwah. After these stories, which have an extraordinary quality, are given, the reader is warned to learn from them. With this work, the author offers a recipe for salvation to those who have socio-economic difficulties due to the conditions of the period and to those who are overwhelmed by psychological problems due to individual reasons. In particular, he draws attention to good traits such as patience, tawakkul, contemplation, dhikr, gratitude, charity, family mercy, gratitude, and prayer, and explains that one should keep them in his tongue, mind, and heart. The author also gives extensive information on magic, how to act against the magic that has been done, and which methods to get rid of the magic. Again in the work, information is given about the harm that may come from malicious people, the nafs who commands evil, the devil and the jinn, and the ways of protection against them. We draw attention to the importance of Tefrîcu'l-qalaq, which is one of the important works of the last period of the Ottoman Empire, in terms of reflecting the understanding of the period in which it was written. In addition, it is pointed out that it is important for today's people in terms of the issues it declares and the remedies it offers against the psycho-social problems experienced. With this study, it is aimed to make a contribution to the Ottoman tafseer culture, albeit a little.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hidayet AYDAR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Tefsir Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tader/issue/73215/1124182
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2459109
