Makale Başlığı: Determination of extracellular hydrolytic enzyme capabilities of some Anoxybacillus isolated from hot spring environments
Özet: The development of microbial enzymes was a crucial event in the industrial sectors as a result of the tremendous growth of biotechnology in recent years. Popularity of waste management and bioremediation processes have both made extensive use of microorganisms’ whole cells and their enzymes. The pharmaceutical, textile, food, cosmetics, leather, paper, energy, biomaterials, fine chemicals, cellulose, and detergent sectors are some of the uses area of microbial enzymes. Depending on different uses, researchers can search for novel bacterial strains that might exhibit previously unrecognized enzymatic activity.  Also for searching for plasmids that could be used as cloning vectors to tackle medication resistance in thermophilic microorganisms. The Anoxybacillus flavithermus bacteria, which were isolated from a hot spring in the Turkish city of Afyon, was employed in this investigation. The ability of the identified bacteria to produce extracellular hydrolytic enzymes was tested. For this, the activities of catalase, urease, and lipase as well as the hydrolysis of starch, casein, xylan, and asparagine were researched. Additionally, tests for antibiotic resistance were studied on the isolated bacteria using four different antibiotics (erythromycin, chloramphenicol, rifamycin, and ampicillin). All identified strains fermented starch as carbon and energy sources, and after 24 hours of incubation, amylase activity was detected at 50°C and pH 7.0. All strains were determined to be catalase-positive, and with a few exceptions, the majority of A. flavithermus strains were also found to be urease and caseinase positive. Industrial products that can be obtained from bacteria found in extreme environments will be effective in the development of future technology.
Yazar isimleri: ['Widad Hassan JARWAİS JAF', 'Emre EREZ', 'Metin ERTAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Frontiers in Life Sciences and Related Technologies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/flsrt/issue/72372/1094629
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2337557
