Makale Başlığı: Attempt to Foundation of Islamic Environmental Law in the Framework of the Concept of Harîm
Özet: Today, the environment is one of the most talked about, problems revealed and solutions proposed. The environment is the physical, biological, social, economic and culturel environment in which people and other living things maintain their relationships and interact with each other throughout their lives. Sustaining a healthy life is only possible with a healthy environment. Everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment. Developing the environment, protecting environmental health and preventing environmental pollution is a constitutional duty of citizens as well as the state. Considering that environmental pollution has reached critical dimensions in the last 50 years, the debates on whether we are the couse or not, should be put aside, and necessary precautions, especially education and awareness raising, should be taken urgently to create a healthy and clean environment and to hand it over to new generations. It is accepted that religious rules, etiquette rules, costomary rules, moral rules and legal rules, are among the rules that ensure the social order. Although the impact and sanction of each of these rules on the individual and society is different, none of them can be completely ignored. In this context, some studies have been carried out considering the effect of religions on creating environmental awareness. Islamic Law is the science that regulates the individual and his creater, the individual and the other individuals, the individual and the society/state, and finally the intersatate rights and duties. In this study, Islamic Environmental Law will be tried to be grounded within the framework of the concept of harîm, which means ‘‘forbidden, protected, untouched, respected.’’
Yazar isimleri: ['Nusret DEDE']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Darulhadis İslami Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/darulhadisdergisi/issue/70882/1138407
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2517286
