Makale Başlığı: A SOCIOLOGICAL STUDY ON THE MASCULINITY OF THE QUANTITATIVE GRADUATION FIELD IN TURKEY
Özet: Based on the assumption that gender affects much more than organic human relations, this study aims to understand the relationship of masculine behavior with quantitative, verbal, equally-weighted and language graduation fields. The study also investigates whether masculine behavior differs by sex, age, income level and geographical region. For this purpose, data were collected from 327 participants using the Personal Information Form and the Masculine Behavior Scale (MBS). The findings of the study showed that masculine behavior differed significantly according to graduation field and geographical region. The graduation field with the highest masculine behavior is quantitative, while the lowest one is verbal. On the other hand, men exhibited more masculine behavior than women, but women also displayed a high rate of masculine behavior. An analysis of masculine behavior according to geographical regions revealed that the Eastern Anatolia region exhibits the highest masculine behavior and the Aegean region the lowest. It was observed that masculine behavior did not differ significantly according to age and income level and all groups exhibited high masculine behavior. At the end of the study, it was made clear that the stereotype that the quantitative is associated with man/masculinity and the verbal with woman/femininity persists and the competitive and surplus value-oriented structure of the modern capitalist society causes masculine behavior to be high, regardless of the variables discussed in the research. Thus, it was understood that the relatively more democratic, accepting and liberal atmosphere of the 21st-century (Turkish) society does not have enough of a transformative effect on masculine behavior.
Yazar isimleri: ['Aykut SIĞIN', 'Hakan SARIÇAM']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: İnönü Üniversitesi Uluslararası Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/inijoss/issue/70601/1062689
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2211467
