Makale Başlığı: INFLUENCE OF LEADERS IN POLITICAL PARTIES’ INSTITUTIONALISATION PROCESS: ANAP AND AKP SAMPLE
Özet: In order to determine the democratic and institutional characteristics of the political parties,the role and influence of the leaders have considered as an essential factor. Leaders can affect thepolitical parties’ policies, institutional and democratic structures intensively with their charismatic androbust leadership features. Individually rise of the leader within the political party may negativelyaffect the political party’s process of democratization and institutionalization. In Turkey, partiesmostly tend to show deinstitutionalize characteristics and features. Therefore, leaders can quickly risewithin the parties as an individual power and control mechanism. Moreover, the charismatic androbust characteristics of the leaders, and victory in the elections are increasing the influence anddominance of the leaders in the party politics. In this case, leaders tend to control the party’s dynamicsin several ways. For instance, determine the candidate deputies, influence, or decide the main congressdecisions and abolish the intra-party oppositions are the main issues that party leaders tend to make.However, the increasing dominance and influence of the leaders in the party, not only damage thedemocratic structure of the political party but also damage the democratization process of Turkey. Inthis context, it is crucial to examine the democratization and institutionalization of political partiesunder a strong leader. In Turkey, the Motherland Party (ANAP) and the Justice and DevelopmentParty (AKP) are the two leading political parties that have experienced the influential leader figure.For both parties, the survival and institutionalization of the party continued problematically withouttheir influential leader figure. In this study, the effects of leaders on the institutionalization anddemocratization of political parties will be discussed through the examples of AKP and ANAP.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 17 Mart 2020
Dergi ismi: Türk Dünyası Uygulama ve Araştırma Merkezi Yakın Tarih Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yakintarih/issue/54574/744136
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1123443
