Makale Başlığı: Emissivity Prediction for an IR Camera During Laser Welding of Aluminum
Özet: Laser processing is becoming increasingly important in industrial applications. The success of the process relies on two fundamental parameters: the surface temperature of the medium and the thickness of the hardened layer. One of the most important factors during a laser process is certainly the temperature, which presents high temperature gradients. The speed at which a material undergoes a phase transition, the chemical reactions that take place during processing and the properties of the material are all dependent on temperature changes. Consequently, the measure of temperature is a demanding undertaking. This study proposes to measure temperature for the duration of laser welding with the infrared camera (IR) Optris PI. To restore the real temperature based on the brightness temperature values measured by the IR camera is needed to evaluate the emissivity to be attributed to the IR camera. For this purpose, firstly, the isotherms consistent with the melting point of aluminum (785 K) were assessed and then compared with the temperature distribution gauged in the zone of irradiation of the laser. Such data were then compared with the thickness of the melted zone.  The use of the melting point isotherm allowed the calculation of the value of emissivity and the restoration of the temperature.  Thermography software data acquisition wrongly presupposes the emissivity value does not change. This generates incorrect thermographic data. The surface emissivity normally hinges on temperature. Therefore, the values on which the literature relies may not work for materials of interest in the conditions of the process. This is particularly the case, where welding is carried out in keyhole mode (Tmax = Tvap). However, the physical phenomena involved, including evaporation and plasma plume formation, high spatial and temporal temperature gradients, and non-equilibrium phase transformations, influence the optical conditions of the brightness of the emission of light from the molten pool, making, De Facto, the emissivity value not constant. Thus, what we propose here is a methodological procedure that allows the measurement of the effective emissivity of the surface, at the same time taking into consideration the consequence of physical phenomena and the conditions of the surface. Two procedures (Standard and Simplified) capable of providing the correct emissivity value in relation to the working parameters have been proposed. The results showed that the procedures are correct, fast, and easy to use.
Yazar isimleri: ['Antonio METALLO']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Thermodynamics
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijot/issue/73597/1129559
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2481517
