Makale Başlığı: TEACHERS' VİEWS ON VALUE-CENTERED SCHOOL CULTURE: THE CASE OF ISTANBUL
Özet: Values ​​are accepted as ideal behavior patterns. Values ​​gained through social interaction and education are the criteria that determine the behavior of individuals. Today, philosophies such as modernism, postmodernism, liberalism and the effects of immoral sharing in digital environments cause moral deformations and corruption of values. As people move away from values, behaviors away from human virtues are exhibited. Behaviors and attitudes away from moral criteria transform values. Thus, a personalized value understanding becomes adopted. According to this understanding, the individual evaluates his/her behavior not according to values but according to his own thoughts. Personalized morality or understanding of value leads people to all kinds of negative behaviors by taking them away from their original nature. For this reason, "education if values" should be given in early childhood, and this education should be felt not only in the family but also in the school environment.It is important to acquire values ​​in the school climate where childhood and youth periods are experienced. Therefore, a value-centered school culture is needed in schools. The aim of this study is the evaluation by the teachers in the field to understand how much value-centered school culture is established in Turkey. For this purpose, descriptive survey model, which is one of the quantitative research designs, is used in the study. The "Value-Centered School Culture Scale" is used, which enables teachers to evaluate school culture based on values. As a result of this research, which is conducted with a total number of 251 teachers, 164 of whom are female and 87 are male, 33,5% of them are pre-school and primary school teachers, 41,8% are secondary school teachers and 24,7% are high school teachers, it is observed that the teachers are of the opinion that they have a value-centered school culture and they think that there are inadequacies in terms of school-environment relationship. At the highest level, it is understood that the teachers consider themselves sufficient in values ​​education as a model.​
Yazar isimleri: ['Handan YALVAÇ ARICI', 'Esma BUDAK']
Yayın Yılı: 7 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Online Journal of Design Art and Communication
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tojdac/issue/72513/1145647
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2545892
