Makale Başlığı: A RESEARCH ON THE IMAGE OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH IN THE COVID-19 PROCESS
Özet: The virus called Covid-19, which emerged in the last months of 2019 in Wuhan city of China's Hubei province, spread to the whole world in a short time. The Covid-19 virus, which is highly contagious from person to person, has had important effects in Turkey as well as in the world. These effects have emerged in areas such as social, political and economic, especially in the field of health. In recent years, the Covid-19 epidemic has emerged as the most important test of political powers in social, political, economic fields and especially in health. The Covid-19 outbreak has an important place in order to see and measure the preparations of the Ministries of Health for crises beforehand. This study has an important place in order to evaluate the preparations of the Ministry of Health in Turkey with all health institutions and organizations for this process and the social response to their performance in this process. This study was carried out in order to measure the perception of the Ministry of Health in informing, raising awareness and services in the society during the Covid-19 epidemic, which was declared a "Pandemic" by the World Health Organization. In this study, a quantitative research method was used, and the obtained data were collected by questionnaire technique. The data obtained were analyzed and interpreted with the SPSS program. As a result of the analysis of the data obtained with the participation of 411 participants throughout Turkey, it was concluded that the studies and activities carried out by the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Turkey in the first period of the Covid-19 epidemic created a positive image in the society.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet ERDOĞAN', 'Feryat ALKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Anadolu Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ulasbid/issue/70080/1108717
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2395796
