Makale Başlığı: BANKING SECTOR AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Özet: Purpose- The most important tool in economic development is investments. Funds are needed for investments. Funds are obtained throughdomestic savings or foreign sources. Resources are known to be limited. For this reason, strong financial systems are needed. The bankingsector is an important element in the financial system. The banking sector provides the collection and use of savings. In other words, thebanking sector is closely related to economic development. The aim of this study is to examine the relationship between economicdevelopment and the banking sector.Methodology- BRICS-T countries are discussed in the study. Panel data for the 2001-2019 period were used. Human Development Index anddomestic credit to private sector by banks (% of GDP) were used as variables. First, cross-section dependence tests were performed. Thenunit root tests were applied. Heterogeneity was determined by delta test. In the last stage, causality test was applied. Causality was examinedby the panel causality test developed by Dumitrescu and Hurlin (2012).Findings- Cross-sectional dependence tests showed that there is crossal-section dependence in the variables and the model. The stationarityof the series was obtained by the CADF test, which is one of the second generation panel unit root tests that takes into account the crosssectional dependence. Delta test results showed that the slope coefficients were heterogeneous. It has been determined that the crosssectional dependence and slope coefficients of the model are heterogeneous. The results of the Dumitrescu-Hurlin panel causality testapplied showed that there is causality between the banking sector and economic development.Conclusion- The results of the research show that the banking sector contributes to the development of individuals. The increase in humandevelopment shows that there are educated, healthy and high-income people in a country. If the banking sector affects human development,human development activities will increase. High-quality human development will increase the level of technological knowledge, productivityin production, and therefore economic growth
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: PressAcademia Procedia
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/pap/issue/71641/1152751
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2571123
