Makale Başlığı: A RESEARCH ON GOLD AN ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT TO PEOPLE IN TODAY’S ECONOMIC INVESTMENT INSTRUMENTS; OTTOMAN COINS AND MODERN MINTED GOLD COINS
Özet: There are many definitions fort he word coin. According to TDK; this word, which is used as a coin,a stamp on coins, an ironor woodstake driven into the ground totie animals, is used in the sense ofcoin used for investment purposes in the study. The coin sand the signatures tat stamp upon themarecombined as one label as coin, there is a various number of metal types used in order to makecoin. Coins is also a sign of the emperor’s wealthand domination. Further more whenth etronechangesits leaderal sokind of coins has to change since it’s not accepted as valid by thene worder.Most of the coins produced by gold alsoit’s used both for ornamentand investment.The aim of this study is the determinationand classification of the printing characteristics of moderngold coins (coins) produced by the General Directorate of the Mintand Stamp Printing House, whichare classified under two groups as printed trappings- ornaments andt rappings-money and in thecirculation during the Periods of the Ottoman Empire and modern Republic of Turkey. Inaddition, itis aimed to compile the information expressed in different studies in fragmented forms until todayand to inform researchers a bout the subject.This study has been prepared with document analysis (review) method, one of the analytical researchmethods. Published magazines, books, articles, electronic books examined within the scope of theresearch documents have been found to contain only certain parts of this subject, and modern goldcoins has been seen that a scientific article on it has not been published.The results of the study are expected that it will provide important information to researchers,academicians and students. The importance of the study is; Amongth eefforts to offer alternatives topeople in today's economic investment instruments is that it has provided illumination on printedgold ornaments.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Disiplinlerarası ve Kültürlerarası Sanat
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijiia/issue/72481/1170719
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2631342
