Makale Başlığı: Body Signs: Is Tattoo a Popular Culture Product?
Özet: This research discusses whether tattoos are a product of popular culture by analyzing the underlying reasons for getting a tattoo and the psychosocial effects of tattoo use. The sample for this study consisted of 28 people living in the Çankaya district of Ankara, Turkey who all had tattoos on their bodies. The study location was visited between June and August 2021. The simple and snowball sampling techniques helped determine the participant group. Data were collected through a semi-structured interview consisting of 15 questions and participant observation techniques. Data analysis was conducted using descriptive and content analysis methods. According to the results, the motivation for getting a tattoo varied. Some of the reasons included admiration and emulation, a period of mourning, a means of communication, belief in a tattoo’s protective properties, covering of a scar, and assimilation into a group. The belief that a tattoo is a product of popular culture is controversial in nature. Tattooing differs from other manifestations of popular culture in that it has a painful construction phase as well as a healing and maintenance process. However, various factors may cause anxiety and regret in the individual, such as experiencing health problems in the process of getting the tattoo, psychological dependence on tattooing, reactions that may occur due to societal perceptions, difficulties in choosing a profession, or the tattoo losing its meaning over time. Ultimately, the tattoo may be viewed as an element that is contradictory to consumer culture. Tattooing is perceived as a learned and imitated behavior by a significant audience and as a determining factor in the reconstruction of identity.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Folklor/Edebiyat
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/fe/issue/73311/1197729
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2743851
