Makale Başlığı: A HEAD OF A STATUE FROM THE BITHYNIAN CITY OF CLAUDIOPOLIS (BOLU)
Özet: This article considers the head of a marble painted statue which was found during construction work in the city center of Bolu and delivered to the Bolu Archeological Museum. This study aims to clarify the identity and dating of the head. The statue head has been examined in terms of craftsmanship techniques, and a stylistic-typological analysis has been carried out with respect to the facial features, facial expression, head posture, hairstyle and headband. Combining the findings from this analysis with information about the context around the find-spot and data concerning administrative and religious personalities in the history of the city, an attempt has been made to draw some conclusions about the statue head. The facial features of the Bolu head reflect primarily the idealism and linear style of the Classical Period. On the other hand, its facial expression and head posture can also be seen in sculptures of the Hellenistic Period. No other similar sculpture has been encountered previously. In view of this, we would appear to be faced with an eclectic and unique work, probably a local production, indicating that the head is not a copy of a particular work. The stylistic and typological features of the Claudiopolis (Bolu) head can also be seen on sculptures from the Hellenistic Period up until the time of Hadrian, making it quite difficult to date this head. However, the polishing technique applied to the surface of the statue head where bare skin is visible may point to a date in the Hadrianic period, an important phase in the history of Claudiopolis. This dating may be supported by the fact that right next to the head structural foundations and a structural element are said to have been unearthed, and these have been dated to the Hadrianic period due to the inscription on this structural element. There is no definite attribute indicating who the head is depicting. The only accessory on the statue head is a circular cross section headband. Because of this, only the hairstyle and the type of headband can provide clues as to the statue's identity. The head does not possess the usual hairstyle of the Roman imperial period. Divided into two from the bun, the hair is combed from back to front and cut short around the face from the forehead to behind the ear. This style and model of haircut is also manifested in representations of Artemis and Apollo from the Classical Period, although the treatment of the bun differs. In addition, such short hair is a rarity in female statues, and researchers concur that it is exceptional for women to be depicted with short haircuts, unlike in the case of men. Furthermore, a circular cross-section headband is understood in most cases to be an indication of a male hero or god. One of the twelve phyla of Claudiopolis is named after the god Apollo. Based on the ancient history of the city and the typological comparison of this head with other sculptural works, it can be suggested that the statue head under discussion depicts Apollo and can be dated back to the Hadrianic Period.
Yazar isimleri: ['Meral ORTAÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: TÜBA-AR Türkiye Bilimler Akademisi Arkeoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tubaar/issue/70348/1038250
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2138725
