Makale Başlığı: THE MEDIATING ROLE OF ATTACHMENT INJURIES IN THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN PERSONALITY TRAITS AND COUPLE ADJUSTMENT OF THE INDIVIDUALS HAVE A CHILD WITH SPECIAL NEEDS
Özet: The aim of this study is investigating the mediating role of attachment injuries between personality traits and couple adjustment of the people who have been married for at least one year and have a child with special needs. Studies were conducted to examine the mediating role of attachment injuries between the personality traits and couple adjustment. The study group consists of 167 married individuals. The data were collected through “Personal Information Form”, “Adjective Based Personality Scale”, ”Marital Attachment Injuries Scale” and “Dyadic Adjustment Scale”. In analyses of the data, Pearson Moment Product Correlation Analysis, Simple Linear Regression Analysis, Sobel Test were used. According to the results, there are significant relationships between the personality traits, attachment injuries, couple adjustment. Personality traits significantly predict their attachment injuries and couple adjustment; attachment injuries significantly predict their couple adjustment. Attachment injuries have been determined as a mediator in the releationship between the personality traits and couple adjustment of married individuals. While attachment injuries have been found to play a partially mediating role in the relationships between couple adjustment and neuroticism, agreeableness, and conscientiousness, it has been found to play a fully medaiting role in the relationship of couple adjustment with extraversion and openness to experience. The results of the study were discussed based on the relevant literature and suggestions were made for future studies.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sare TERZI ILHAN', 'Şerife IŞIK']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Sosyal Politika Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/spcd/issue/72723/931593
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1746790
