Makale Başlığı: SINGLE BEAD PROPERTY OF SHORT FIBER CARBON REINFORCED ABS COMPOSITES PRODUCED WITH LARGE SCALE ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING (LSAM)
Özet: This study presents an analysis of the mechanical behavior of different amounts of carbon fiber additive ABS composites produced by the large-scale additive manufacturing (LSAM) method. Additive manufacturing is distinguished from other manufacturing methods such as casting, molding, machining or etc. by its ability to obtain complex parts by this manufacturing method. Even it is desired to make rapid prototyping, due to the manufacturing time related to material deposition rate; it is not suitable for mass production. Also, the mechanical strength of produced parts is not adequate in terms of strength for the end-user. So, engineers made great efforts to overcome this problem, in particular, increasing the strength of produced parts with additive manufacturing technology. Adding some strengthen additives (carbon, fiberglass, etc.) into the material, therefore, significant having high strength materials would have been manufactured by this method. In order to validate enhanced material in terms of tensile and compression strength, flexural bending capacity, and non-supported bridging distance ability, many studies were carried out by researchers, however, these studies were generally carried out for small volume printers. Namely, there is a gap that must be filled in huge volume printing systems (LSAM) in view of these studies. Here, flexural capacity was investigated in a large-scale additive manufacturing system. Flexural tests were conducted following the ASTM standard of D790. In this study, In order to evaluate the flexural bending capacity of a single layer, four specimens are produced from the direct extrusion system of LSAM.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ömer EYERCİOĞLU', 'Engin TEK', 'Mehmet ALADAĞ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: The International Journal of Materials and Engineering Technology
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tijmet/issue/72047/877574
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1567228
