Makale Başlığı: Yönetim Araştırmasında Teori-Pratik Kopukluğunu Gidermeye Yönelik Araştırma: Problem Temelli Metodoloji ve Bir Uygulama/ Theory-Practice Gap in Management Research: Problem Based Methodology and an Application
Özet: Scientific research on management continues to reveal a wide array of managerial and organizational problems and provide causal explanations for them. However, the effectiveness of research in solving management problems remains limited. Existing literature provides several reasons for this ineffectiveness and receipts for their remedial. Problem-Based Methodology (PBM) claims that there is a misalignment between the problems of researchers and the problems of managers, and this misalignment leads to scientific knowledge that cannot be used in practice. Problem Based Methodology is a postpositivist approach that consists of a theory of problems, a theory about how to solve problems, and a set of normative criteria for judging the adequacy of solutions. PBM starts with two questions: (1) “what is the nature of the practice?” and (2) “what does the answer to the first question tells us about how it should be studied?” In PBM, practice is defined as a solution to prior problems about what to do given a particular situation. For example, a strategy is a solution to the problem of how to pursue a competitive advantage across the companies chosen market. A corporate policy is a solution to the problem of how the organization will function. An organizational learning practice is a solution to the question of how to create, acquire and transfer knowledge within the organization and how to modify the organization’s behavior to reflect the acquired knowledge and insights. PBM claims that if we can understand the problem-solving process that leads to a current practice then we can change this process to yield better solutions. In order to match the practice, PBM uses Thomas Nickles’s problem definition: “a problem consists of all the conditions or constraints on the solution plus the demand that the solution is found”. These constraints can be variously weighted, and the solution can be a concept, behavior, or process that satisfies the constraints. Constraints are requirements that the solutions should meet. Solutions that are otherwise acceptable can be ruled out by constraints. Constraints may have been set externally by regulatory or governing bodies or be limits on resources such as finance, staffing or technology. They can be set by problem solvers themselves. These constraints are subject to revision based on experience, relevant theory or feedback from the environment.In this paper, an example of research practice will be presented about how better problem-solving approaches can be developed through critically evaluating the managers’ reasoning and actions used in the problem-solving process within the research process by regarding managers as partners in research. This study can be a model for both the management researchers seeking to produce directly useful research and managers looking for developing better problem-solving approaches. This particular research is aimed at understanding the problem-solving process of a manager dealing with a subordinate he identified as irresponsible. The manager’s current practice does not yield the intended results and every attempt to solve the problem strains the relationship between the manager and the subordinate. The manager’s practice is evaluated using the four criteria of PBM. The explicit and implicit constraints on the solution are identified. The researcher and the manager collaboratively developed a new solution to the problem and practiced its implementation. The research provides insights regarding the ineffective problem-solving process of the managers and example to how research can benefit practitioners with improved solutions through research.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Selim DERİNDERE']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Nitel Sosyal Bilimler
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/nsb/issue/71303/1118571
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2436056
