Makale Başlığı: Anesthesia management in patients with abnormally invasive placenta: A single-center experience
Özet: Aim: Postpartum hemorrhage is a life-threatening obstetric emergent clinical situation accompanied by blood loss of more than 500 ml after vaginal delivery and more than 1000 ml after cesarean section. This situation, frequently encountered in placental adhesion anomalies, is essential in terms of follow-up, treatment, and multidisciplinary management. We aimed to retrospectively evaluate the perioperative anesthesia management, transfusion requirement, and postoperative intensive care unit requirement of patients diagnosed with placental invasion anomaly who had an intraoperative hemorrhageMethods: In our single-center study, a total of 58 female patients diagnosed with of placental invasion anomaly with a cesarean section between 2017-2020 were examined. Patients under 18 years of age and missing data were excluded from the study. Demographic data of patients (age, American Society of Anesthesiologists score (ASA)), diagnosis, duration of operation, perioperative laboratory findings, anesthesia type, perioperative hemodynamics (highest heart rate, lowest mean arterial pressure, shock index), amount of bleeding, blood products, and fluids used, surgical interventions (B-Lynch, Bacri balloon application, uterine artery ligation, hysterectomy), intraoperative vasopressor/inotrope use, ICU stay, laboratory results in the first 24 hours postoperatively, and total hospital stay were recorded.Results: In the preoperative evaluation, 27 (46.5%) patients were diagnosed with placenta accreta, and placenta previa was diagnosed in 19 (32.7%) patients. Perioperatively mean of 3.08 ± 1.7 units of Red blood cell was used. In patients with postoperative intensive care unit hospitalization, the highest intraoperative lactate value was 3.5±1.8 mmol/L, shock index was 1.3±0.3 (0.6-1.8). In patients given intraoperative fibrinogen concentrate, the intraoperative shock index was 1.5±0.2 (0.9-1.8), the amount of intraoperative bleeding was 2575±302.2 ml, and the fibrinogen levels measured in the first 24 hours after surgery were 294.7±79.7 mg/dl.Conclusions: Anesthesia management of patients diagnosed with abnormal placental invasion is important because of significant hemorrhage. Due to unstable hemodynamics, preoperative blood product preparation with a multidisciplinary approach and a postoperative intensive care unit plan should be made for these patients.
Yazar isimleri: ['Güneş Özlem YILDIZ', 'Canberk ÇETİNEL', 'Elif MARANGOZ', 'Özlem Melike EKŞİ', 'Sema KARAKAŞ', 'Gökhan SERTÇAKACILAR']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Archives of Clinical and Experimental Medicine
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/acem/issue/71619/1112799
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2412047
