Makale Başlığı: Determination of Knowledge Levels and Affecting Factors of Nurses Regarding Indwelling Urinary Catheterization
Özet: Objective: The study was planned to determine the level of knowledge of nurses about indwelling urinary catheterization (ICU) application and the factors affecting it.Methods: The research was planned as descriptive and cross-sectional. The population of the study consisted of 720 nurses working in two different state hospitals, and the sample consisted of 317 nurses who agreed to participate in the study. “Nurse Descriptive Characteristics Form” and “Indwelling Urinary Catheterization Practice Information Form” were used to collect data.Results: It was determined that the mean age of the nurses participating in the study was 33.07±8.78 years, 95.3% were women, 53% were married, and 68.8% were undergraduate graduates. The mean total knowledge score of the nurses regarding the practice of indwelling urinary catheterization was found to be 13.41±1.7. The mean total correct scores of the nurses, whose working year was 11 years or more, regarding the indwelling catheterization application were found to be statistically significant compared to those whose work experience is between 1-5 years and 6-10 years (p<0.05).Conclusion: It was determined that the level of knowledge of the nurses about indwelling urinary catheterization was at a moderate level. It was observed that as the working years of the nurses increased, their total knowledge level about the IUC application decreased.  In order to provide effective and comprehensive nursing care, nurses should keep their knowledge of IUC up-to-date and in-service training should be given to them in accordance with the needs of the clinique they work.
Yazar isimleri: ['Selen ARSLAN', 'Şengül ÜZEN CURA']
Yayın Yılı: 5 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Ordu Üniversitesi Hemşirelik Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ouhcd/issue/73709/1019517
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2065214
