Makale Başlığı: DECLARATION Save, Care and Protect of Life, the pre-viable Preterm
Özet: At the Equality and Human Commission, Article 2: Right to life, at Turkish Constitutional Law(Article 17); “Each one has right to life, structural and moral presence, for save and developed,in progression”. Thus, it is clear and obvious, and additional Right to Life and Live, so, no onebe faced to honor of humanity, objective and subjectively, also by social rights for live birth, asa basic of existence ad Human being, the individual rights and liberties be noted at the law also.“Everyone has right to be life, in objective and be presence for developing and progressingright” is clear and obvious. In addition “no one will be performed torture, and oppression, noaction be done for the honor of a person” indications are evident and apparent. One of theGovernmental duty, as in Article 5, “the main purpose and duty of the government are thepersonality basic rights and liberty.. thus, confirming the objective and moral authority, fordeveloping and advancing be preparing” as noticed. Right to Life, the physical andpsychological and social, cultural existence be saved and cared, and be grounded on legal andethical principles.As noted at the Turkish Deontological Principles, Article 2, “the health of the individual, thelife, and personality for utmost care and serving” as the obligation, responsibility of aphysician. In addition such subjects, at the Turkish Constitution, Article 10, and Turkish PenaltyCode, Article 90, “if estimation of known medical procedures application is not enough result,by informative consent, even experimental scientific submissions, and for treatment approach,can be perform and not be a criminal consideration” is the notice by law. Physicians only be“for examination and treatment, utmost care and precautions ve obligatory be considered”.Supporting the physiology and safety measures for the outcome of problems, beneficence, thanthe early or treatment of diseases. Delaying at medical applications be punished by the TurkishConstitution Article 137, and Penalty Code, Article 280, at the medical staff, even be silent atsuspicious at this concept. The responsibility be an individual aspect as also noted at the PenaltyCode, Article 20.For healthy and be active living of a near-life preterm infants, especially below 1000grams, thephysiology be supported and be required according their gestational week obligations. This willbe following by evidences, ad intensive care precautions, especially specialty for care asPerinatology at the pregnancy and Neonatology at birth and after life accomplishment.This Declaration concerning; “Right of the Life is the elementary one for being alive,especially considering the pre-viability of the preterm infants, thus, serve and save forsupportive for health, shielding from problems, before establishing, principally for theconsidering for the Vitality Right” as a brief indications..
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 19 Mayıs 2020
Dergi ismi: Türk Dünyası Uygulama ve Araştırma Merkezi Yenidoğan Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/estudamyenidogan/issue/54479/741839
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1116944
