Makale Başlığı: The Relationship between the Visionary Leadership Behaviors of School Principals and the Motivation of Teachers: The Example of Adıyaman
Özet: In the study, it was aimed to determine the relationship between the visionary leadership behaviors of school principals and the motivation of teachers. In addition, it was aimed to determine whether the perception levels of teachers regarding the visionary leadership behaviors and motivations of school principals differ according to the variables of gender, educational status and professional seniority. Within the framework of the stated purposes, the relational scanning model was preferred as a method in the research. The universe of the research consists of teachers working in secondary schools in Adıyaman city center. The sample of the study consists of 280 teachers who were determined by the "Simple Random Sampling" method among the teachers working in secondary schools in the city center of Adıyaman. In the research, the "Visionary Leadership Scale" was used to determine the visionary leadership views of the teachers and the "Motivation Scale" to determine the motivation of the teachers. The data collected for the research were analyzed by the SPSS package program. In the study, it was concluded that there is a high level of positive correlation between teachers' visionary leadership and motivation perceptions. The achieved result can be explained as the higher the visionary leadership behaviors exhibited by school administrators within the school, the higher the motivation of teachers. A similar situation occurred on the basis of motivation and the sub-dimensions of visionary leadership. In addition, in the study, it was concluded that the perceptions of visionary leadership and motivation of teachers differed significantly according to gender and educational status. According to this result, it can be stated that teachers' perceptions of visionary leadership and motivation are not similar to each other in terms of gender and educational status, and it can also be stated that gender and educational status are effective on teachers' visionary leadership and motivation perceptions.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hüseyin ERARSLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Temel Eğitim
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/temelegitim/issue/69985/1063707
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2215603
