Makale Başlığı: Early Intervention and Early Diagnosis of Specific Learning Disabilities: Response to Intervention
Özet: It is known that students with specific learning disabilities can exhibit difficulties in reading, writing and mathematics. Providing early intervention to students at risk of manifesting these difficulties plays a critical role in their future school performance. When the situation of evaluation and diagnosis of specific learning disabilities in Turkey is examined, it is known that intelligence tests are used widely in the diagnosis of students with specific learning disabilities. However, it is seen that scientifically based and systematic practices for the educational needs of students with specific learning disabilities before diagnosis are insufficient. The aim of this study is to explain Response to Intervention (RtI), which is a scientifically based and systematic practice and used for early intervention and early diagnosis for students at risk of specific learning disabilities, and contribute to the national literature. RtI is a multi-tiered early diagnosis, intervention and support system that identifies students with learning problems and provides educational support to students before they fall behind their peers. The aim of RtI is to provide early intervention not only to students with specific learning disabilities but also to students who are undiagnosed and/or at risk of having specific learning disabilities. Although RtI is a multi-tiered model, the three-tiered model of RtI is commonly applied. At each tier, the nature of the intervention changes and the intervention intensifies. In this study, the changes in the diagnosis and early intervention processes of individuals with specific learning disabilities from the past to the present are discussed by presenting information about RtI. In addition, the situation regarding RtI in Turkey is explained and suggestions are presented.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sultan KAYA', 'Asuman SAĞLAM AK', 'Macid Ayhan MELEKOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 11 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Milli Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/milliegitim/issue/73393/1034793
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2124619
