Makale Başlığı: IInteraction With Ibadiyya-Mu’tazila on The Axis of The Principle of Tawhid
Özet: The political and social events that Muslims faced for the first time and the results of the civil wars as a result of these events gave rise to the movements of sectarianism. The first movement of sectarianism in the Islamic society occurred with the separation of the mass, which would later be called the Kharijites (Muhakkime-i Ula), from among the followers of Ali. The events that took place after these separations of the Kharijites left deep traces in the memory of the Muslims. The Kharijite movement soon split into factions among itself. One of these sects is İbadiyya. Ibadiyya is generally accepted as the only Kharijite sect that has survived to the present day. Ibadiyya is a sect that came into being with the schooling of the ideas of the community called kaade, which is inhabited in Basra. Again, another sectarian movement that took place as a result of the discussions that started among Muslims especially around the issues of "faith and kabira" is the Mu'tazila. Although the Mu'tazila, which was formed in the city of Basra and left deep traces on the mentality of the Islamic society, could not continue its existence as a sect, it influenced many people, schools and sects both in their own time and in later times with their ideas, discourses and methodological methods. Mu'tazila is a political and religious sect that emerged as a result of social events in the Islamic society and the discussions brought about by these events. Tawhid is the most basic principle of Islam. Tawhid is at the forefront of the principles on which all Islamic sects of faith emphasize. The phrase "la ilaha illallah", that is, there is no god but Allah, describes tawhid. All sects of Islamic belief agree that the principle of tawhid is the first basis of usûlü'd-dîn (the origins of religion). The subject that constitutes the essence of the principle of tawhid is the issue of adjectives. Halku'l-Qur'an and ru'yetullah are among the issues discussed within the framework of the ideas put forward about the subject of adjectives. The Ibadiyya and Mu'tazila sects, whose views we have examined comparatively on these issues, are of the same opinion with other sects in the fact that Allah is the Creator of all things and in his oneness. Both sects have put forward ideas that are quite different from the views of other Islamic sects and especially the Ahl al-Sunnah, which is under the roof of the majority of Muslims, on the subjects of 'attributes, folk-ul-Qur'an and ru'yetullah', which we can also express as the subtitles of the subject of tawhid. The first of the principles that Mu'tazila adopted as usûl-i hamsa is the principle of tawhid. This principle is also at the forefront of the method subjects of Ibadiyya. When the views of İbadiyye and Mu'tazila on this subject are examined, the existence of similar perspectives draws attention. In our article, we will comparatively discuss the ideas of Ibadiyya and Mu'tazila on the axis of the principle of tawhid, which is the first of the method subjects of the creed, and the attributes of Allah, which are accepted as sub-headings of this subject, ru'yetullah and people of the Qur'an. We will try to reveal the similarity of ideas between the two sects on issues related to the subject of tawhid. However, we will try to express the interaction and the direction of the interaction that we believe to exist between the İbadiyye and the Mu'tazila.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet YOLDAŞ', 'Mehmet KUBAT']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Yakın Doğu Üniversitesi İslam Tetkikleri Merkezi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yaduitmed/issue/70670/1114552
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2419187
