Makale Başlığı: Student Experiences on Teaching Practice in Higher Education During the Covid 19 Pandemic Process
Özet: The purpose of this research is to reveal the experiences of teacher candidates on teaching practice in higher education during the Covid19 Pandemic process. This research was planned in qualitative research design and case study model. The study group of the researchconsists of 75 teacher candidates. The data of the research were collected through the structured questionnaire prepared by taking expertopinion. The data were analyzed using the content analysis technique. As a result of the analysis of the data, 4 themes, 10 sub-themes and298 codes were determined. According to the results of the research, teaching practices conducted through distance education during theCovid-19 pandemic process are not at a sufficient level. According to the results of the research, there are problems in teaching practice inthe dimensions of class participation, infrastructure, access, technical issues, learning environment and internship practice. In particular, itis stated that there is no interaction in the lessons, the students do not attend the lessons, no feedback is provided, and there are equipment progandinternet problems. In addition, it is stated that the home environment is not suitable for learning, lack of motivation, unsuitable courseschedules, lack of material, lack of information and some activities are not held. According to teacher candidates, teaching practice shouldbe primarily carried out face to face. If face-to-face education is not possible, teaching practice should be carried out with a mixed methodor teaching practice should not be done in pandemic conditions. In order for teaching practice to be effective under pandemic conditions,it is recommended to provide infrastructure, access and technical support, to organize the learning and teaching environment, to ensurethe participation of students, and to organize the curriculum for the candidates. Candidates can be trained with in-service training aftergraduation.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ertuğ CAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Yükseköğretim ve Bilim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/higheredusci/issue/72432/1118080
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2434083
