Makale Başlığı: EXHIBITIONS OF THE VIRTUAL WORLD
Özet: The Covid-19 pandemic, which has had a profound impact in our country and all over the world in recent years, has seriously disrupted almost every field of life and education-training activities have suffered the most from this disruption. Online course activities have been carried out at all levels of education from primary schools to university, however, due to the course of the pandemic today, this activity is continued as face-to-face and online education through the hybrid education model. On the other hand, the shutdowns experienced in all field of life has deeply affected academic life and art platforms. In order to reach out the audience and the art buyer, many new concepts have been introduced to the world of culture and art. The world of culture and art has felt the need to open a new path for itself in the form of online concerts, online theater events, online panels and online exhibitions. Being reshaped on the basis of the pandemic conditions, the concept of exhibition design has included a new presentation form in the field of art. The fact that it is accessible and physically free from a mere space has gained meaning in the concept of "online exhibition design". As mentioned in the conclusion part of the research; The online display design, which will become a part of life after the pandemic, has taken on a more realistic structure with the importance of the metaverse concept. It has provided an important experience in terms of the fact that the virtual environment can be touched physically and its own self and experiences can be felt on a personal basis. Visitors were able to freely navigate from anywhere in the world, and were able to convey their experiences, likes or dislikes through social media connections.The main axis of the research includes the way online exhibition designs are presented to visitors in a digital environment and the platform on which this act of presentation is structured to capture reality. In the study, this new exhibition design is examined in terms of viability and accessibility and evaluated through samples. It is important in terms of guiding researchers, who are interested in the field, since a new understanding of exhibition design is thoroughly examined.
Yazar isimleri: ['Elvan TEKİN']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: İnönü Üniversitesi Kültür ve Sanat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijca/issue/71606/1109132
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2397555
