Makale Başlığı: LEXICAL OCCASIONALISMS AND ITS RELATION TO SIMILAR EVENTS
Özet: In the introduction of the article, the meanings of the concepts of okkazionalism and neologism are emphasized. First, the meanings of the-se concepts in dictionaries are given. Then, how the same concepts are handled in linguistics resources and their similar and different aspects are emphasized.Okkazionalism is the new meaning ascribed to a word that exists in a language. Occasionalism is both individual and temporary. That new meaning is not used by others, so it never becomes general.Neologism is a new word in a language. This new word may have arisen from the language's own possibilities, or it may have been taken from other languages. The most important feature of neologism is that its novelty is felt by the people who use that language. There is a period when every word in a language is considered neologism. Because every word that we commonly use today has a date when it was born. As the word becomes more widespread over time, it ceases to be neologism. For example, words such as kolkhoz, sovhoz, tractor, tractor driver, pioner were neologisms in Uzbek in the 1930s. As their use became more widespread, they ceased to be neologisms and became the regular word. Likewise, some words such as vizier (minister), province, tumen (dist-rict), judge (governor), nafakahor (retired) are also the neologisms of the 1990s in Uzbek. Since these words are widely used today, they are now considered obsolete and normal words.Terms that make up a certain part of the vocabulary of the Uzbek language are used as epithets in fiction, and they serve to emotionally exaggerate the characteristic features of certain things and events. In the paper, the epithet formation of scientific terms related to philology, mathematics and astronomy is analyzed, the epithet as a means of artistic image arises based on the internal possibility of the language material in the speech process.
Yazar isimleri: ['Odina TUXTASINOVA']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Comparative Turkish Dialects and Literatures
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ctdal/issue/73483/1197226
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2741622
