Makale Başlığı: THE DEVELOPMENT PROCESSES AND SCIENTIFIC PRODUCTION DYNAMICS OF THE SERVICE-DOMINANT LOGIC APPROACH: BIBLIOMETRICS ANALYSIS OF RESEARCH PUBLISHED BETWEEN 2004-2021
Özet: This study aims to examine the service dominant logic research, which have 17 years of experience in the marketing literature, with a bibliometric perspective. Within the scope of this purpose, 912 studies published in the Web of Science database between 2004-2021 were analyzed by considering scientific production dynamics and thematic development processes. In the analysis process, VOSviewer software was used to determine the dynamics of scientific production such as journals and authors that are effective in the field. In the studies examined, SciMAT software was used to deal with how the themes were shaped in the historical process. In the analysis of scientific production dynamics, Vargo and Lusch continued to be the most influential writers in the field, while the Journal of Marketing was determined as the most influential journal on service-dominated logic in the field. In the analysis of scientific production dynamics, Vargo and Lusch continued to be the most influential writers in the field, while the Journal of Marketing was determined as the most influential journal on service-dominated logic in the field. The thematic development process of service-dominated logic studies was examined over three periods (2004-2009; 2010-2015; 2016-2021). It was observed that thematic diversity exhibited a continuous increase in all three periods examined and the themes brought together marketing and management studies, albeit with a decreasing effect. Another prominent finding in the study is that the motor themes that shaped the field in the examined periods did not exhibit sustainability. At this point, it was observed that the diversity of themes increased as we approached the present day, while the sustainability of the themes between the periods weakened. Actors, consumer participation, business models, network theory, dominant logics, and performance themes in the inverse relationship between the diversity of themes and sustainability that stand out within the scope of the research have come to the fore as topics that have a high potential to contribute to the field and need research.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Pazarlama ve Pazarlama Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ppad/issue/72846/1182552
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2681289
