Makale Başlığı: Inside the reality through shadow of the virtual: Implementary and digital labor of the subject
Özet: Capitalism has historically been in more than a quarter of a century; A series of serious changes have occurred in the productive formation. The most readable phenomenon of these changes is labor practices. Apart from a physical production structure in the traditional sense, labor can also create "surplus value" cognitively and digitally through information and communication technologies, and can experience a negative encounter with the pressure of capital in all areas of life. This situation is closely related to the new governmentality paradigm of the society. The set of theories and practices that make up the new governmentality paradigm constructs itself through neoliberal principles. This process, in other words, is called neoliberal governmentality. The neoliberal understanding of governmentality, first, demands that society and social structures govern themselves like a company and act with a profit-oriented logic. In other words, it desires the prospect of an overall "economization of society". This desire also brings along a new subject typology. The new subject, who is described as a neoliberal subject, designs its life based on success and performance. The new subject, described as a Neoliberal subject, designs his life based on success and performance. In a failed situation, Neoliberal seeks guilt and responsibility within its own subjectivity rather than outside. This means that a subject is open to exploitation at the point where capital meets its own needs. Especially this process reveals itself in labor practices. The practices of exploitation of labor by capital in traditionally predetermined spaces show itself today in digital and intangible labor practices. Capital provides its sustainability by expanding the area of exploitation. At the outset, this sustainability is realized through a certain series of material and cognitive changes in capitalism. In this study, digital labor and immaterial labor besides how the neoliberal subject is immanent to exploitation within these labor practices are shown.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ferhat GÖÇER']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: NOSYON: Uluslararası Toplum ve Kültür Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/nosyon/issue/71049/1108073
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2393053
