Makale Başlığı: Pesticide Adsorption from Fruit Juice with Activated Carbon Obtained from Pomegranate Peel
Özet: Interest in environmental conditions and decontamination agents has given impetus to research on the production of non-fossil source activated carbon. Therefore, agricultural organic lignocellulosic waste materials draw an attention. In our study, pomegranate peel was used in the production of activated carbon. It is aimed to obtain activated carbon with high surface area, suitable for adsorption properties and large pore diameter from pomegranate peel using both physical and chemical activation techniques. In chemical activation studies, the effect of ZnCl2 and AlCl3 on the surface area is investigated and experiments are carried out by trying different temperatures, durations and concentrations. The appropriate activated carbon process is determined. A certain concentration of pesticide and pyrolyzed activated carbon are added to the fruit juice used as an aqueous solution and then they are analyzed. The capacity of activated carbon to absorb the added pesticide in apple juice was measured. According to the results of the analysis, the effect of this activated carbon on the removal of pesticides added to apple juice is examined. After different amounts of pesticide added to fruit juice, different concentrations of activated carbon are added. After mixing the fruit juice-pesticide mixture for varying times, the fruit juice extract is analyzed using what is called the AOAC 2007 Pesticide Analysis Method along with using the Quetchers kit. As a result of the experiments, it is concluded that the pomegranate peel can be a highly efficient raw material in the production of activated carbon. At the same time, when the working conditions are made suitable, it is determined that the active carbons produced from the pomegranate peel, which is a waste material in the production of pomegranate juice, can be used in the removal of the Carbendazim pesticide from the fruit juice.
Yazar isimleri: ['Aziz ŞENCAN', 'Merve Zehra ÇİFTÇİ YAVUZARSLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Süleyman Demirel Üniversitesi Fen Edebiyat Fakültesi Fen Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sdufeffd/issue/73519/1179218
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2667123
