Makale Başlığı: Investigation of Silica Aerogels Effect on Paint Characteristics
Özet: Newmethods of energy saving are being researched by many scientists. An importantresearch area in these studies are insulating paints. Silica aerogels are oneof nanostructured insulating materials with low thermal conductivity, highsurface area and low density. The main aim of this project is to study onalternative paint insulator by producing silica aerogel. In this research, Na2SiO3and H2SO4 solution were used for synthesis of aerogels byusing the sol-gel method. Acetonitrile and methanol:hexane solution was usedfor solvent exchange and surface modification. The effects of the processparameters such as the reaction temperature  (35-55oC), the solution amount (150-180ml), theaging temperature (70-90oC) and the drying temperature (50-70oC) were studied. Depends onthe reaction parameters, three different kinds of aerogels were synthesized(aerogel1(A1), aerogel2(A2) and aerogel3(A3)). After that production progress,silica aerogels were added to two different kinds of paints (water andsolvent-based). Aerogel amounts (%1-%3) and aerojel types were chosen asexperiment factors. Properties of these samples, such as viscosity,hydrophobicity and adhesivity were measured. The viscosity measurements showedthat the viscosity increase with the increasing amount of aerogel in both typesof paint. When compared, the hydrophobic properties, best results were obtainedin the using of A2 for water-based paint and using of A1 for the solvent-basedpaint. For the adhesivity, it can be said that it has an improving effect forall aerogel and paint types . In conclusion, the result of experimentsdemonstrated that silica aerogels have a positive effect on paintcharacteristics
Yazar isimleri: ['Rana Aksu']
Yayın Yılı: 10 Ekim 2019
Dergi ismi: European Journal of Engineering and Natural Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ejens/issue/49410/368790
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/826689
