Makale Başlığı: Evaluating The Morphometric-Topographic Features of the Occipital Condyle and the Clinical Significance
Özet: Aim: To reduce morbidity and mortality in surgical operations to be applied to the craniovertebral junction,it is important to know the anatomical structures in the skull base and the topographical relationshipbetween these structures. Lateral suboccipital craniotomy and occipital condyle resection are amongthe preferred methods. Surrounding neurovascular structures may be damaged during occipital condyleresection. The aim of study was to develop regression formulas that will determine the precise locationof the occipital condyle and estimate the distances to the surrounding anatomical structures, based onthe skull morphometry of the person.Material and Methods: The study was carried out on 22 condylus occipitalis (11 skulls) at HarranUniversity, Medical Faculty Anatomy Laboratory. The determined 27 parameters were measured via theImage J program on the skulls’ inferior, anterior, lateral and posterior aspect photographs. Multiple linearregression analysis was performed.Results: To determine the morphometric and topographic features of the occipital condyle, theequations have been developed such as; The occipital condyle length= -2.142 + (0.330 x P15) – (0.468x P19) – (0.748 x P20) + (0.807 x P21); Adjusted R2= 0.911, Standard Error of the Estimation= 0.938.Conclusion: Considering the difference between the minimum and the maximum values observed indescriptive statistics, the distribution between these values, the different findings in the studies in theliterature, there may be erroneous applications in the attempts to be made over the mean values. Webelieve that the formulas we have developed will be beneficial in personal-specific approaches.
Yazar isimleri: ['Serdar BABACAN', 'Rohat BAYAT', 'Mustafa DENİZ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Batı Karadeniz Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mjwbs/issue/72438/1160776
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2591375
