Makale Başlığı: The Relationship between Fear and Postpartum Depression in the Coronavirus Pandemic: A Cross-sectional Study
Özet: Objective: In this study, it was aimed to examine the relationship between the fear of the coronavirus epidemic and postpartum depression in women with 0-12 months old babies.Method: Cross-sectional descriptive study data were collected online between 20 March and 15 June 2021. A total of 206 women aged between 18-45 years with 0-12 months old babies were included in the study. Data were obtained using the participant introduction form, the Edinburgh Postpartum Depression Scale, and the Coronavirus Fear Scale.Results: It was observed that 81.1% of the participants did not have a coronavirus. It was determined that 61.5% of those who had coronavirus were breastfeeding their babies during this period. It was determined that there was a statistically significant difference in the scores of the Fear of Coronavirus Scale between working status, interruption of work due to birth and interruption of work due to epidemic. 32.6% of the participants were in the risk group for postpartum depression. It was determined that the participants who thought about starting work again had a lower risk of postpartum depression than those who did not.Conclusion: In the study, it was determined that women have a moderate fear of catching coronavirus in the postpartum period and there is a positive relationship between fear of coronavirus and postpartum depression. Both physical and psychosocial comprehensive evaluations should be made in the postpartum period, and women in need should be encouraged to receive professional psychological support.
Yazar isimleri: ['Büşra YILMAZ', 'Meryem Yaren YAVUZ', 'Çiğdem BİLGE', 'Meltem MECDİ KAYDIRAK']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Mustafa Kemal Üniversitesi Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mkutfd/issue/73508/1061490
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2206681
