Makale Başlığı: THE GAME, HUNTING AND SOME CURRENT ISSUES IN ISLAMIC LAW
Özet: In Islamic law, hunting is permitted by the Book, Sunnah, and Ijma. Licit means following Islamic law and applying strict conformity to the provisions of and what is regulated by Islamic law so that the people are allowed to do or not to do anything. Concerning the legitimate limits, hunting is justified. In contrary to this, gratuitously hunting is not approved, as well as hitting the games randomly. Our fiqh acts comprehensively evaluate the game and hunting and describe the judgments on the game to be hunted, hunter, sporting animal, and hunting. Hunting subject is related to slaughtering. Our religion’s idea is to make, not to kill any living things. The animals also have the right to live for a certain period. In addition to that, our religion is grounded on the facts “animal welfare” and “treating all beings with mercy .”Therefore, hunting is restricted following these principles under the limitations and terms set out by the current laws and regulations by the sharia. One of the most legitimate reasons for hunting is to meet the need for food. Based on the current facts, hunting cannot meet the need of meat today. How-ever, on the contrary, the hunters endanger the wildlife by destroying animal habitats with excessive hunting. Some animal species are critically endangered while others are virtually extinct, thereby restricting ground of hunting. Again, overfishing is the most severe threat to the fish species too. Additionally, sea pollution leads to the death of sea animals. Therefore, keeping the environment clean and treating wastewater efficiently have gained significant importance in today’s world. Overall, hunting today is negatively affected by these realities. In this article, the game and hunting issues are discussed within the framework of Islamic law, and some current assessments concerning the animal love and environmental protection are also briefly mentioned.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa BORAN']
Yayın Yılı: 23 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Helal ve Etik Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/head/issue/70488/1081401
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2284064
