Makale Başlığı: A New Roadmap for Reskilling and Upskilling (R&U) in Türkiye: Vocational Training Center Skill Development Programs
Özet: Purpose: The skills that adults possess are very important for their adaptation to the technological transformation and contribution to the economy. Therefore, large-scale projects are implemented to develop theseskills within a lifelong learning approach. The Ministry of National Education (MoNE) has initiated “Vocational Training Center (VTC) Skill Development Programs” to improve the skills within the paradigm shift in VET system. This study aims to evaluate the performance of these programs in the first six months through the data collected from the participants.Design/Methodology/Approach: The study compares the number of students in VET skill development programs and the change of demographic characteristics in the last six months. Therefore, the data in the programs were used anonymously. The study is designed as descriptive research.Findings: The findings show that adults demand greatly for skill development programs in just four months and the number of participants has increased from approximately 6000 to 79000. The adults aged 31 and above constituted largest share of participants. The gender distribution of the participants is quite balanced and it is mostly valid at different age levels. In addition, 19% of participants graduated from associate degree and higher education levels. This reveals that adults need to develop their skills and are in high demand regardless of their education level. The service sector and creativity-related fields are highly preferred by adults and this pattern is valid for adults from different education levels. Highlights: VTC skill development programs have a great potential for upskilling and reskilling of adults in Türkiye. For the last six months, these programs are demanded from adults and the percentage of females have reached the peak level in VET. The fact that 19% of the participants are tertiary graduates indicates that adults who have graduated from tertiary education have a demand for acquiring new skills. The findings in the first six months show that the skills development programs reach the target group and meet an important need in skills development.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Kastamonu Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kefdergi/issue/73217/1195691
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2735487
