Makale Başlığı: INDIGO DYED AFRICAN TEXTILES PRODUCED WITH RESIST DYEING AND PRINTING TECHNIQUES
Özet: Natural resources that give blue color have been used to color textiles by various communitiesthroughout history. Before the development and widespread use of synthetic dyestuffs, various Africancommunities, as well as the other communities, have used different indigo resources to dye their textiles blue.In this study, regardless of the source of the natural indigo dye, African textiles dyed in blue with the resisttechnique were examined and it was tried to reveal which reserve techniques and in which regions thesetextiles were produced. In the study, it is aimed to eliminate the deficiencies in the literature by making adetailed presentation and classification of indigo dyed resist textiles produced in Africa. It can be seen thatresist dyeing techniques are used in most of the textiles colored with indigo dyes. These are made in a widerange of techniques from physical resist to chemical resist in various communities.According to the findings; resist dyeing technique is a traditional textile dyeing option that is widely appliedin Africa, but resist dyeing with indigo is practiced mostly in West African countries. Although there are dataregarding the indigo dyeing with resist technique is done in various regions of Africa besides West Africa,it is seen that these are not traditional dyeing applications but rather produced with synthetic dyes fortourism purposes. It is observed that three types of natural indigo sources are used in textiles colored withnatural indigo. In addition, there are examples where the appearance of a particular resist types imitatedwith different resist techniques in order to conceal the original technique. Therefore, determining the typeof resist technique done by using indigo, which has a rich variety in Africa, requires both theoretical andapplied work in this field.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 22 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Sanat ve Tasarım Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sanattasarim/issue/70459/1133821
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2499185
