Makale Başlığı: The Effect of the Covid 19 Pandemic on Audiology
Özet: The coronavirus epidemic (COVID 19) has brought with it new work experiences as well as some difficulties for those working in the field of audiology and  patients benefiting from audiology services. Social isolation and the use of masks have revealed communication difficulties for individuals who have hearing difficulties and benefit from hearing rehabilitation. Although the decrease in visual cues makes communication difficult, speaking with familiar people at home and less background noise, more favorable listening conditions have created a suitable environment for patients with low speech intelligibility in noise. Face-to-face communication is important for communication between healthcare professionals and patients. Personal contact has been reduced to contain the spread of the epidemic. Procedures requiring close personal contact such as auditory brainstem responses (ABR) and Videonystamography (VNG) have been postponed. There were delays in fitting settings of patients using cochlear implants and hearing aids. Except for very urgent cases, patients could not benefit from hospital services. Disruptions in hearing health services affected patients psychologically. It has brought the obligation of those working in the field of audiology to provide services in different fields. COVID 19 ushered in a new era that included a re-evaluation of the delivery of audiology services. It was accepted that the concepts of teleaudiology and tele rehabilitation are necessary. Quick adaptation to these applications was achieved. Follow-up is very important for rehabilitation effectiveness in audiology patients. The effects of the COVID 19 crisis continue to be widespread. Audiology clinics need to rapidly develop and disseminate innovative digital and telehealth approaches in response to the changing situation. In this review, the positive and negative effects of the audiology services of the COVID 19 crisis on patients and employees and the audiological approach will be discussed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Asuman KÜÇÜKÖNER', 'Dursun Mehmet MEHEL']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Samsun Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jshs/issue/72266/1049362
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2161555
