Makale Başlığı: Technological Applications in Smart Home Design for the Elderly in Isolated Living Periods
Özet: As one of the most important health problems of the last century, the Covid-19 epidemic affects all areas of life. In the epidemic process, the most affected by the virus and the people who suffered the most numerical losses were the elderly. The fact that the death rate is higher than the young population has brought extra precautions especially for the elderly during the epidemic process. Along with hygiene rules, social distance, quarantine and similar measures, curfews applied especially to elderly individuals aged 65 and over have increased the importance of the question of how to protect their quality of life during the quarantine process. It has become questionable to what extent our living spaces respond to our needs in terms of design and comfort during the epidemic process. Considering the health and physical capabilities of the elderly, who are considered as the high-risk group, different analyzes should be made in housing spaces for the elderly. In recent years, innovative solutions of smart systems have become more prominent in our living spaces. In residences, which are our daily living spaces; With the electronic system applications of smart home technologies, it becomes important to increase physical comfort and to make movements and actions easier in the house. Systems used in smart homes can be specifically designed with personalized applications. Considering that the epidemic process and the living spaces of the elderly require special solutions, smart home systems can be recommended as a solution. In this study, it is planned to provide information about the design models developed for creating living spaces that offer more comfortable and convenient facilities to the elderly and the measures to develop the concepts, designs and perspectives that emphasize the importance of the relationship between the environment and old age, in the light of the data obtained as a result of the literature research. Along with the architectural projects designed to provide a livable environment/environment especially for the elderly, information will be given about the "housing with life support", which is still a new category in architecture.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bakhodur ERGASHEV', 'Leyla TOKMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Sürdürülebilir Mühendislik Uygulamaları ve Teknolojik Gelişmeler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/smutgd/issue/70374/1053839
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2176634
