Makale Başlığı: A Collision Avoidance System Based on COLREGs Rules for Autonomous Surface Vessels
Özet: The proposed mathematical model in this study consists of two parts, one is the maneuvering model, called MMG (Mathematical Model Group), and the other is a control algorithm based on traditional PD control system. The MMG model is used to compute the ship's maneuvering characteristics, and a ship can safely reach target coordinates with the help of a control algorithm if it encounters any obstacles along the way. Because of the suitable hydrodynamic coefficients of Esso Osaka, the proposed mathematical model is evaluated using trial test data from Esso Osaka. Firstly, the maneuvering characteristics of the ship were determined by performing the turning and zigzag tests for different velocity of the ship. By comparing the results obtained with the trial test results of the Esso Osaka, the suggested model was verified. Secondly, the ship's route was obtained for a determined target coordinate. Thirdly, a new route is automatically obtained by assuming that there is an obstacle between the starting point of the ship and the target coordinate determined for the previous simulation. As a result, this new route is created thanks to the virtual coordinates determined in accordance with the COLREGs rules. Since the maneuvering characteristic values of the ship are included in the written algorithm, it directly affects the determination of the virtual coordinates. Therefore, it is very important to find accurate maneuvering characteristics. Evaluating the simulation results obtained from the proposed mathematical model, it is concluded that a safe route has been created between the coordinates determined for the Esso Osaka ship. Moreover, the ship reaches the target coordinate without any collision.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gökhan BUDAK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Gemi ve Deniz Teknolojisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gdt/issue/70983/1104423
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2378062
