Makale Başlığı: One Event, Two Narratives: The First Period Hadith About the Marriage of the Prophet and Maymuna with or without Ihram and its Reflection on Sects
Özet: Transmission of the body ḥadīth is an important touchstone in the formation of Islamic thought in general and the science of ḥadīth in particular. Understanding the ḥadīth transmission patterns in the first two centuries will contribute to our understanding of Islamic sciences and ḥadīth. The subject matter of the present study is the narratives about the marriage of a given person while they are in iḥrām. Its purpose is to deal with the narration patterns of the first century of the Hidjra in the context of the effects and results of the narrators on the ḥadīth transmission. There are conflicting narrations on whether or not Maymūna and the Prophet got married with or without iḥrām. The narrations from Ibn ʿAbbās were authentic, and the narrations from Yazīd b. Aṣam and Abū Rāfiʿ are either ḥasan or weak. What seems to be the primary motivation behind the transmission of these narrations is the conflicting reports on the subject which then led to inquiries about the matter. This situation was also reflected in the ḥadīth texts through the narrators. While in some of these ḥadīth texts words that indicate that the marriage was consummated with iḥrām come to the fore, in others the emphasis is given to words that indicate that the marriage was consummated without iḥrām. This conflict which started during the generation of the Companions and continued into the generation of the Successors made its way into the legal discourses of the legal schools, and these scholars made use of the arguments of the first period in addition to those which they themselves come up with to support their views.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bekir ÖZÜDOĞRU']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Eskişehir Osmangazi Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/esoguifd/issue/71425/1138803
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2518751
