Makale Başlığı: Reminders and Social Reflections of the “Kulüp” Series in the Context of the Memory Concept
Özet: Just as beginnings and endings direct the course of history, it also leaves traces in individual or social memory layers. The 20th century, in which memory studies are given importance, interdisciplinary researches are carried out, and human is the main element based on the results of these researches, is a period in which historiography was reshaped. Handling memory as a kind of remembering mechanism, in other words, carrying the signs of the transition from oral culture to written culture, making the abstract visible by turning into concrete ensures that the memory is kept alive even more. While the reality behind the image expresses the subjectivity of individual memory inferences, it also exhibits the objective units of collective memory. The history of humanity almost opens its doors to future times and generations. In memory, details, myths, tales, and epics bearing the traces of oral culture are followed by places, manuscripts, and works of art transitioning to written culture. Technological opportunities have brought a memory to a digital dimension, and archives using image language have been created. Human expressions that stand out from frames were embodied on the white screen. The power and popularity of the art of cinema to influence large audiences in a short time have led to its use as a frequently preferred tool in memory formations. Timelessness in the expression language of cinema can take the audience on a journey through memory layers. Television using the power of cinema and today’s digital broadcasting platforms also produces original productions by referring to the memory of different societal perspectives. “Kulüp” series, which is among the original productions of Netflix, the digital broadcasting platform with the highest share of views in the world and Turkey, conveys the defining features of the period from the perspective of Sephardic Jews, shedding light on 1950s Turkey and specifically Istanbul’s Beyoğlu district, where predominantly non-Muslims lived. The 10 episodes of the Kulüp series that constitute the study’s sample will be analyzed according to the typical case sampling method, which is one of the purposive sampling methods used in qualitative research. The “time,” “space," “minorities,” and “belief” factors determined for typical sampling will enable us to reveal the social reflections of memory formation on the subject of the study.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sinem TUNA']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İletişim Kuram ve Araştırma Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ikad/issue/72778/1065917
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2223954
