Makale Başlığı: Lexicographic Approach to the Literary Language of Ismail Shikhli
Özet: One of the important dictionaries that should be compiled in Azerbaijani lexicography is the dictionaries of the writer’s language. The purpose of this article is to research this language from a lexicographic approach (method) and to give its lexicographic analysis for the preparation of theoretical bases for the dictionary of Ismail Shikhli’s language. It is not accidental that the language of the People’s Writer of Azerbaijan Ismail Shikhli is chosen for the preparation of a dictionary of the writer’s language. I. Shikhli’s works have been published repeatedly for many years, they have readers of all ages, and are always included in the secondary school curriculum. His work has always been of interest to researchers, both in terms of literary studies and language. The most interesting part of I. Shikhli’s lexicon has less frequent words, which doesn’t occur in the explanatory dictionary of the Azerbaijani language, but reader can come across with it in Shikhli’s works. Such words are sufficient and should be represented not only in the author’s dictionary, but also in general dictionaries. For example, “yahralanmak”- to be trimmed in the form of a strip / to be trimmed and lined up in the form of a stripe. Zulla hat - a very tall type of hat made of curly fur. The hats of the soldiers of the XI Army were also called zulla hats because they reminded the people of the ancient type of hats. “haykirmak” – to shout, to scream. I. Shikhli’s language is rich in ethnographic vocabulary. In Shikhli’s works one can find a wide encyclopedic explanation of some words related to the life, standards, customs and traditions of the people: “iynalik”- one of the traditions of Novruz holiday. “jidirhangi” -explanatory dictionary hasn’t registered it. The nameof percussion based music and dance performed in horse races. “diradoyma” - although it is registered only in the explanatory dictionary as the name of the play, it is also found as the name of a dance in the language of I. Shikhli. In compiling an explanatory dictionary, it is sometimes necessary to use the works of four or five writers in order to fully cover all the meanings of words in the language. I. Shikhli is able to skillfully demonstrate the possibilities of the word, such as polysemy, homonymy, and provide vocabulary material alone to present the meaning of the word. In thisregard, the article presents an illustrative material on the use of the word heel in four meanings and the word root in three meanings. Preparing a dictionary of the writer’s language by studying Shikhli’s work from lexicographic point of view, revealing interesting language facts is not only a monument set up with the author, but also a service to the work of collecting components of a treasure called the Azerbaijani language, enrichment of the language corpus, compilation of multivolume general dictionaries.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 17 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Dünyası Dil ve Edebiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tdded/issue/73108/1193676
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2727236
