Makale Başlığı: Investigation of the effects of different flight parameters on the accuracy of DEM generated using UAV systems
Özet: Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), can be controlled automatically or with the help of a remote control system, provide high spatial and temporal resolution images in addition to its advantages in terms of cost and time. Due to these features, UAV’s have been widely used in studies such as map production, 3D modeling and volume calculation in recent years. In this study, it is aimed to investigate the effects of different flight parameters on the accuracy of Orthomosaic and DEM produced with UAV Systems. In addition, the rolling shutter effect and the use of pre-calibrated and automatic camera calibration parameters were also tested. For this purpose, a total of seven UAV flights were carried out at different heights, overlap ratios, angles and grids at a mining area located within the borders of Aksaray province. Agisoft MetaShape and Pix4D Mapper, which are widely used commercial software, were used to process the UAV images. In this study, 27 points were established and 3D coordinates of these points were measured using GNSS technique. 15 of these points were used as reference points and the remaining 12 points were used as check points. Accuracy analysis was performed by comparing the produced Orthomosaics and DEMs with the check points in the study area. CloudCompare and ArcGIS software were used in the comparison of the products as a result of the evaluation of the images. It is concluded that the Orthomosaics produced using 450 angle and DEMs with 600 angle has higher accuracy than the others. Point clouds and DEMs’ produced using automatic and pre-calibrated camera calibration parameters show that the pre-calibrated images provide higher accuracy. Also, it is seen that when the rolling shutter effect is modeled, the horizontal and vertical accuracy is increased in all three flights with different flight parameters in this study.
Yazar isimleri: ['Elif BULUT', 'Ferruh YILMAZTÜRK']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Journal of Geosciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/turkgeo/issue/70669/1114813
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2420236
