Makale Başlığı: Anomaly Diagnosis Using Autoencoder in Edge Computing Systems
Özet: IoT systems operate in a traditional cloud-connected architecture. The data generated on IoT devices is transferred to the cloud, stored there, and then processed, trying to extract meaningful information. However, in this preferred structure, the disadvantages of being constantly dependent on the cloud are quite high.  While transferring each piece of information raw to the cloud increases network traffic, it requires high hardware power to process data only at the cloud layer. UBISOKKAT (Anomaly Diagnosis Using Automatic Encoder in Edge Computing Systems) system has emerged as a solution to the problems mentioned above. The UBISOKKAT system acts as an intermediate layer between IoT systems and cloud systems. Every data generated at IoT points is first sent to the UBISOKKAT system in the middle layer, where it is transmitted to the cloud layer. The machine learning model is then placed in the cloud tier and begins to train itself using the data it receives from the middleware. The outputs of the model whose training process is completed are sent to the UBISOKKAT system and the automatic encoder is run in the middleware software, not in the cloud. The biggest advantage of this is that in real-time systems, data is not sent to the cloud but analyzed at local points, reducing network traffic and reducing latency. At the same time, since not every data is analyzed in the cloud, it is analyzed at local points, reducing the need for the cloud, reducing high costs and increasing the viability of the system. In this study, an automatic encoder model was operated in the last layer and it was seen that the UBISOKKAT system could diagnose anomalies at the extreme points based on the data obtained from the single-phase electric motor.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mert KIŞLAKÇI', 'Mahmut DURGUN']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: International Scientific and Vocational Studies Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bilmes/issue/70729/1132562
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2493980
