Makale Başlığı: Finding Employment Anxiety of Students Enrolled in Higher Religion Education: A Case Study of Hakkari University, Faculty of Theology
Özet: Unemployment problem which has been one of the leading economic problem has increased significantly among the graduates of Higher education. Employment and Unemployment issues after graduation have increased individual’s anxiety as well as negatively affect their hope for the future. Despite the wide range of employment, the increase number of theology faculties opened in recent years, increasement of student quotas for these faculties, increase in number of graduate students from the faculty of theology, the intake of student with out entrance examination through İLİTAM p in the faculty’s program, and also considering the number of students graduating from the open theology education associate degree programs, it can be said that individual’s anxiety to find employment after graduation is normal. The fundmental problem of our research study named Finding Empolyment Anxiety of Students enrolled in Higher Religion Education “A case study of Hakkari University, Faculty of Theology” is to look into and identify whether students have anxieties about finding employment or not, and also to identify the factors that afffect these anxieties. Since our research is an emprical research the use of scanning model was considered appropriate. For this reason, survey technique which suit the scanning model in our research case study was used, the obtained findings was depicted been used to explain the existing state and situation. The reseach case study is made up of undergraduate students attending the 2020-2021 academic spring semester graduate program at theology at Hakkâri University. The study sample of the consists of 128 students who were selected through representative sampling. Since the sample was thought to be capable of representing the population the evalution was limited to 128 questionaires that were fiiled out completely. The statistic describing the demographic characterist of individuals were included in the study. As a result of the analysis, there was no a statistically significant difference between the variables of gender, class, monthly income and educational startus of the parents with the scale total score and sub factors. However, it has been observed that there is a statistically significant relationship between anxiety about finding a job and the attitude of finding a job after gradution by 41.2% and, with the total scale of 96.2%. It has been determined that there is a statistically significont 64.5% relationship between the attitude of finding job after graduation and the scale that.
Yazar isimleri: ['İslam MUSAYEV', 'Hatice Kübra AKCAN']
Yayın Yılı: 22 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye Din Eğitimi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tudear/issue/70435/993542
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1966998
