Makale Başlığı: Adolescence – Name – Internet: How Do German-Speaking Girls Name Themselves on the Web?
Özet: The  authors  conducted  the  present  study  across  onomastics  and  social-,  gender-,  Internet,-  and  psycho-linguistics.  The  paper analyzes virtual anthroponyms (so-called nicknames or usernames) that are result from self-nominations by German-speaking adolescent girls on the social Internet services Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, Flickr, Pinterest, and TikTok. The  study  material  covers  four  years  (2017–2020)  and  examines  2,363  nicknames,  as  well  as  the  accompanying  personal  metadata of 11–17-year-old users along with the results of online and offline interviews with informants. The paper seeks the  main  goal  and  hypothesis  of  t  finding  a  correlation  between  the  gender-age  characteristics  of  adolescent  Internet  users  and  their  linguistic  embodiment  in  virtual  communication  in  the  form  of  self-nominations.  The  authors  study  and  describe  nicknames  based  on  the  positions  of  their  semantic  motivation  and  meaning,  nominative  potential,  structural  and  grammatical  design,  and  graphic  organization.  The  linguocultural  component  of  virtual  self-nominations  receives  special emphasis. In addition, the authors provide the results of an experiment to determine the stability of nicknames over time. A descriptive linguistic analysis of the data reveals clear trends in the creation of self-nominations by adolescent girls. The  authors  discovered  different  specific  gender  and  age  markers  through  the  lens  of  virtual  anthroponyms:  formation  of  self-concept  against  the  background  of  striving  for  an  emphasized  individualization  and  simultaneous  need  for  social  acceptance, distinctly feminine manifestations, a tendency to positive or overestimated self-esteem, and increased interest in the pubertal phase. The users are equally inclined to deanonymize and to anonymize their personalities in the web space. However, in both cases, it is particularly important for girls to transfer their original self-nominative intentions to nicknames. The  development  of  cognitive  abilities  and  critical  thinking  by  adolescent  girls  is  manifested  in  linguistic  creativity  and  involvement in the problematic or cultural context of interest.
Yazar isimleri: ['Viktoria KAZİABA']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Alman Dili ve Edebiyatı Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iuaded/issue/70402/1027807
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2097317
