Makale Başlığı: A Research on The Effects of Mistoyê Mîrî and Cizre on the Social Structure
Özet: With the establishment of the Hamidiye Regiments, he became the commander of the 48th Regiment, Mustafa Bey (Mistoyê Mîrî), the leader of the Miran Tribe, was brought in by II. Abdülhamit and he was given the rank of 'Pasha' after a short time. Before long, he tries to control the different religious and ethnic elements that continue to exist in the region, and to make the tribes and lineages obey by using violence and force. It designs the social structure according to itself; He sends the families he sees as having problems to other places and settles many families from outside in Cizre. It causes the agalık system to take root in the region, to establish a culture of fear, usually by using violence and force, and to understand the state as a system based on oppression and force. He uses his armed unity to bring rival tribes to heel, takes away the property of the people through taxes and extortion, loots or plunders them. Despite all this, he is not heard by the central government. His atrocities are voiced by the people of the region, even after a century. This study consists of data obtained through in-depth interviews of the events that left their mark on the shaping of the social structure of the region. The social structure of Cizre before and after the Pasha, the social segments that existed at the regional level and their relations with each other, and the feudal structures that were formed are discussed. In addition, effective powers in the administration of the region, class divisions formed by various interventions, the role of religious and cultural statuses in the social structure are emphasized. The general result is that the effects of the developments in the relevant period continue today.
Yazar isimleri: ['İrfan YILDIRIM']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Şarkiyat
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sarkiat/issue/72894/1116837
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2428441
