Makale Başlığı: AN INVESTIGATION OF SCHOOL ADMINISTRATORS’ BEHAVIORS PERCEIVED AS PSYCHOLOGICAL VIOLENCE (MOBBING) BY PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHERS AND METHODS THEY EMPLOY IN COPING WITH THEM (SAMPLE OF THE TURKISH REPUBLIC OF NORTHERN CYPRUS)
Özet: This research aims to investigate the perceptions of primary school teachers working in public primary schools affiliated to the Ministry of National Education and Culture of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC) regarding the psychological violence (mobbing) they experience at schoosl and the methods they employ in coping with this mobbing. Survey model, one of the quantitative research methods, was used in the research. At the same time, the causal comparison model was also used in the research since it was examined whether the demographic characteristics of the teachers were a reason/factor in explaining the psychological violence. The s population of the study consists of a total of 1566 teachers working in public primary schools affiliated to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC) Ministry of National Education and Culture in the 2018-2019 academic year. The sample consists of 309 teachers who were selected by means of the stratified sampling method. In data collection, the “Mobbing at Work Scale” developed by Toker Gökçe (2006) was used. According to the findings of the research; Behaviors of the administrators behaviors perceived as mobbing by teachers are at a low level. While the behavior of the administrator, which is perceived as mobbing at the highest level by the teachers, is the interruption of speech of teachers by the adminisrators; the behavior of the administrator, which is perceived as mobbing at the lowest level, is physical harm given to body. No statistically significant differences were found between the demographic characteristics of the teachers and the administrator behaviors they perceived as mobbing. It has been observed that in coping with mobbing, teachers use the method of working to improve themselves (such as social activities, various courses) in the areas where they are talented, the most; and the method of leaving the profession the least. No significant differences were found between the demographic characteristics of teachers and the methods used to cope with mobbing.
Yazar isimleri: ['Buket GÜNEY TARHAN', 'Tuba YAVAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Mustafa Kemal Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mkuefder/issue/70958/1120141
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2442493
