Makale Başlığı: Mihrabanids from Its Foundation to Amir Timur Domination (1236-1383)
Özet: The dynasty, which was called Nasrid Meliks or Nimruz Meliks, was the ruler of Sistan and its environs during the Seljuk period. Mongols began to appear in the first quarter of the 13th century, in the region which was administered by the Gurlus and Harizmshahs in the later period. The Mongol invasion in and around Sistan created fear and turmoil in the region. The notables of Sistan, who managed to unite in this turmoil, decided that Sistan should be ruled by Melik Shams Al-Din Ali b. Mesud b. Halef b. Mihribân. Thus, the Mihrabani dynasty was established in 1236, with Sistan as the center. Shams Al-Din Ali, the founder of Mihrabanids, captured regions such as Nih, Uk, Farah and Kah in addition to Sistan in a short time and developed his dominance up to the coast of Sind. After Shams Al-Din Ali, Nasır Al-Din Muhammed became the ruler of Mihrabanids. During his reign, both the political borders of the Mihribânîds expanded and their administrative organizations were formed. For this reason, Nasır Al-Din Muhammed is called the original founder of the Mihribânîds.The Mihrabanids first were subordinated to the Mongol Empire. When Hulagu Khan established the Ilkhanate State, they became dependent to the Ilkhanate. After about a century and a half of Mongolian subordination, they became the dependent of Timurids with Amir Timur's entry into Iran. Because the entire political and socio-economic history of the Mihribânîds, who ruled Sistan and its surroundings for about three centuries, will exceed the volume of this study, only the political issues during the period from the establishment of the Mihribânîds to the Timurids invasion will be discussed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Samet ALIÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Ortaçağ Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/oad/issue/70559/1086447
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2304209
