Makale Başlığı: The Relationship of Oxidative and Metabolic Parameters With Hemoglobin A1c in Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
Özet: Objectives: It has been shown that patients with Diabetes Mellitus (DM) have increased oxidative stress and impaired antioxidant defense system which appears to be a contributory factor for initiation and progression of complications in diabetes. In this study, we aimed to demonstrate the relationship of oxidative and metabolic parameters with Hemoglobin A1c in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Materials and Methods: One hundred and fourteen male and female patients with new onset type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) without complications were recruited for this study. Besides their systolic and diastolic blood pressures, Body Mass Index (BMI) and age, serum levels of fasting blood sugar, Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), LDL, HDL, triglyceride (TG), H2O2, antioxidant capacity (AOC), glutathione (GSH) and malondialdehyde (MDA) were determined in these patients. The median HbA1c value of the subjects was determined and the oxidative and metabolic parameters of the ones who were below the median value were compared with the oxidative and metabolic parameters of the ones who were above the median value. Parametric values were statistically analyzed by student-t test.Results: There wasn’t any statistically significant difference in terms of age and sex between the groups. The subjects who had HbA1c levels below the median value (7,58) showed lower systolic and diastolic blood pressure compared to ones who had HbA1c levels above the median value. This result was statistically significant (p<0.05). The subjects who had HbA1c levels below the median value (7,58) also showed lower serum triglyceride levels compared to ones who had HbA1c levels above the median value. This result was also statistically significant (p<0.05). The subjects who had HbA1c levels below the median value (7,58) had lower LDL, H2O2 and MDA levels, and higher HDL and GSH levels but these results were not found to be statistically significant. Conclusion: In type 2 DM patients, as HbA1 level increases, oxidative stress increases, metabolic parameters increase and GSH decreases. Therefore, improvement in lifestyle to reduce HbA1c is very important in diabetic patients
Yazar isimleri: ['Aysen KUTAN FENERCİOGLU']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Kasım 2019
Dergi ismi: Ankara Medical Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/amj/issue/50345/651971
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/864197
