Makale Başlığı: The Development of a Cooling System App for Immobile Patients
Özet: In the 21st century, as technology advanced and individuals sought to maximize their use of time, there was an increase in the usage of automated systems, which led to the prominence of microcontrollers. The well-known Arduino tiny portable microcontroller is one of the finest in the world today for creating quick, effective automated gadgets that support daily living. This paper is entirely dedicated to the COOLING SYSTEM driven by ARDUINO. This is a look at a flexible project that may be utilized in a variety of settings, including places and things that people use on a regular basis. With the development of technology in the twenty-first century, people are increasingly seeking for ways to save time, which has led to an increase in the usage of automated systems, with microcontrollers emerging as key actors. One of the greatest in the world today for creating quick, effective automated gadgets that support daily living is the well-known little portable microcontroller called Arduino. The ARDUINO driven COOLING SYSTEM is the focus of this article. This is a glimpse into a flexible project that may be utilized in a variety of contexts, including everyday items and public spaces This book is intended for a wide range of audiences, including students studying the expressive arts, middle and senior secondary school students, students studying building structures, as well as practicing researchers and architects. The book has been divided into sections to accommodate this large audience and satisfy the needs of each reader. The book includes a ton of product and equipment information that can assist readers in constructing a wide range of structures. The Arduino Mega 2560 equipped with the Atmel ATmega 2560 and the Arduino UNO R3 supplied with the Atmel ATmega 328 are two different Arduino products that are covered in the book.The third release has been refreshed with the most recent on these two handling sheets, changes to the Arduino Development Environment, and different expanded models.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ramiz Musallam SALAMA']
Yayın Yılı: 12 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kafkas Üniversitesi Fen Bilimleri Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kujs/issue/73804/1140962
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2527037
