Makale Başlığı: The Intercessory Role of the Prophet and the Holy Family through the Concept of the hawd al-kawthar: A Critical study of Mahmoud Ayoub’s Thoughts
Özet: Mahmoud M. Ayoub has developed an Islamic model of redemption in his works particularly in the Redemptive Suffering in Islam. By assuming that redemption is fulfillment through suffering, Ayoub has proposed an alternative Islamic model of redemption within the context of intercession (shafā’ah) in Twelver Shī’īsm. In his opinion, intercession is the direct reward of the sufferings and martyrdom of the Holy Family (ahl al-bayt) so they can rescue their devotees from the hell and the God’s punishment by this intercessory prerogative. The pool of al-kawthar, in Mahmoud Ayoub’s model of redemption in Shī’īsm, is a symbol of the rewards and favors of the Holy Family and the final vindication of their suffering. This article criticizes Mahmoud Ayoub’s thoughts about the exclusive connection between the intercession and suffering in Shī’īsm and argues that the intercessory privilege of the Prophet and the Holy Family is because of their high status before God which was stabilized even without their sufferings, however, those sufferings and privations have strengthened their high-ranking position. It means that God will never reject any requests of the Prophet and the Holy Family including their intercession not just because of their endurance of suffering and martyrdom, but because of God’s love and respect towards them which has several reasons. Thus, the intercessory prerogative of the Prophet and the Holy Family on the Day of Judgment is an expression of God’s feelings towards the Prophet and the Holy Family and demonstrates their high status to the entire creatures. Besides that, intercession’s second purpose, which Mahmoud Ayoub also agrees with, is God’s favor in order to benefit those who have led a good life but the amount of their evil deeds is more than the level of their good deeds and deserve to be punished. Finally, this article offers that, based on the second purpose of intercession, although the merciful and compassionate God in Twelver Shī’īsm is not a passible God, He may have some similarities to what Christianity depicts as a sympathetic, passible God who suffers from the suffering of His people, especially in the works of Jürgen Moltmann.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mahdi MORAVVEJİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Journal of Shiite Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/siader/issue/70703/1021440
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2072972
