Makale Başlığı: Turkish-British Trade Relations from the Ottoman Empire to the Early Republic
Özet: England was an agricultural country that had no commercial, political and cultural relations with the other continents of the world until the 15th century. Along with geographical discoveries, the intensification of transoceanic trade also affected England. From the 16th century onwards, political and commercial relations between the Ottoman Empire and the Northern European countries began to increase. Officially XVI. In the beginning of the Ottoman-England relations in the 19th century, political and commercial concerns were at the forefront. British merchants reached the Eastern Mediterranean, which they called the Levant, and started to trade with trade centers such as Crete, Cyprus, Tripoli, Chios and Damascus. XVIII. The fact that the geostrategic goals of England and the Ottoman Empire were different until the 19th century also prevented the countries from competing with each other. The privileges of the Levant Company led to the monopoly of England in the Ottoman country. The concessions given to England with the 1838 Balta Limani Trade Agreement had a negative impact on the Ottoman economy. The fact that Turkish-British relations turned into conflict after 1875 as a result of strategic conditions had a negative impact on commercial relations. England, XIX. the end of the century and XX. At the beginning of the century, it lagged behind France and Germany in its trade with the Ottomans. With the victory of the National Struggle and the proclamation of the Republic, open and positive approaches to foreign capital brought the British closer to Turkey. England tried to draw Turkey towards a country turning its direction to the West. Turkish-British commercial and political relations developed along liberal lines after 1923. Between 1920 and 1930, Turkey had a continuous foreign trade deficit. While Turkey's exports to England decreased gradually until 1930, its imports increased. The 1929 world economic crisis and the anti-status quo policies of Germany and Italy brought the British closer to Turkey. Britain was able to reach the desired place in its trade with Turkey only after 1936. In this study, between the Ottoman Empire and England XVI. The commercial relations, which started in the 19th century, were handled on the economic-political axis in the period until the Early Republican Period.
Yazar isimleri: ['Lütfi ARSLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Mavi Atlas
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gumusmaviatlas/issue/73222/1119658
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2440513
