Makale Başlığı: The Universal and Historic Dimension of Circumstance in Fiqh Perspective
Özet: Historicity is the existence of a provision in a specific historical, geographical and social environment, its existence and continuation dependent on the existence and continuation of these conditions. When it comes to historicity/locality in the Sunnah, the historical, regional, social, political, cultural and economic features specific to his period, which are reflected in the words, behaviors and actions of the Prophet, come to mind. If circumcision is accepted as lived practices, they reflect the mental, linguistic and vital practices of the society they are in. As a messenger of God, as a prophet he raised unprecedented individuals, built a new society, and introduced new values and practices, but ultimately he did so in the VII century succeeded on the social ground of the Arabian Peninsula at the turn of the century. This finding is Understanding and interpreting the hadiths, which are the data of the Sunnah of the Prophet that have reached our age, are very important for the interpretation of the law in terms of jurisprudence. To put it more concretely, Mr. The information in the hadith collections in which the events in which the Prophet took place were recorded, although some of them were recorded from the mouth of the Prophet, VII. Reading it independently of the rhetoric and perceptions of the 20th century Arab society will lead to misunderstandings. There is no doubt that the narrations containing these qualities may have a universal aspect in terms of the message they want to convey. However, it is not necessary for the hadiths transmitted in matters that are related to the special situations of individuals or that require knowledge and skills to contain a message that belongs to the whole society. What is understood from universality in sunnah is that hadith and sunnah contain a message belonging to humanity. It is the realization of the purpose that the Prophet cares about when he is subject to that message. One of the steps to be taken in order to bring circumcision into the modern age is to understand the issue of locality and universality in circumcision correctly. In this context, in this paper, the local and universal aspects of circumcision will be discussed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Recep ASLAN', 'İsmail YILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 19 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Gaziantep Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jss/issue/73087/1185125
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2692205
