Makale Başlığı: The Story of a Famous Turcologist in the Soviet Period: B. A. Serebrennikov
Özet: Soviet Linguist, Boris Alexandrovich Serebrennikov, carried out research in the field of linguistics and is accepted as one of the world's leading experts in Indo-European, Finno-Ugric, and Turkic languages. His research plays a vital role in the theoretical foundations of actively developing fields such as sociolinguistics, cultural linguistics, psycholinguistics, and cognitive linguistics. The scientific life of the famous linguist, who has more than 350 articles and 11 books in his forty-year working life, reflects a stormy life. Marr's new doctrine of language created a chaotic atmosphere in Soviet linguistics. Serebrennikov defends classical linguistics against this teaching; does not compromise on the principles it believes in; despite all the intimidation policy, he criticizes the faulty aspects of the doctrine at every opportunity. Serebrennikov had an endless interest in languages since childhood and had a multi-faceted research desire. He was also interested in Finno-Ugric and Turkic languages as well as Indo-European languages, he has given a great impetus to these areas and introduced essential ideas. Although researchers recently used pieces from his enormous contribution to Turcology, we realized that he is not sufficiently known in our country. The fact that no study reveals Serebrennikov's personality, his scientific understanding and works, and the social, political, and scientific structure of the Soviet period in which he lived has led us to this study. Books, articles, and compilations edited by B. A. Serebrennikov within the framework of research resources; Marr's works and other scientific sources, which explain the new doctrine of language, have been examined, along with articles and various pieces that provide information about him. Our study aims to explore the main works, scientific understanding, and views of the famous linguist with a descriptive method. Besides that, it is aimed to refer to Serebrennikov's Turcology studies and  his attitude towards the new doctrine of languages which devoloped in Stalin’s shadow in 20th-century Soviet linguistics and reflected the period in which Serebrennikov lived and influenced his scientific works.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1192518
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2722517
