Makale Başlığı: The Adaptation of the Schadenfreude Scale into Turkish Culture
Özet: Crysel (2014) argued that Schadenfreude can be evaluated as a trait in the face of various unfortunate events in social life. Accordingly, she developed a 12-item scale that consists of two dimensions: benign and malicious Schadenfreude. The present study aims to adapt the Schadenfreude Scale Crysel developed for American culture to Turkish and to examine its psychometric properties. The study’s sample is comprised of 379 university students (183 male, 196 female, Mage = 20.6, SD = 2.48). The participants were given the Toronto Empathy Scale and Benign and Malicious Envy Scale to test the validity of the Schadenfreude Scale. Item analysis, confirmatory factor analysis, and internal consistency were respectively performed on the data obtained from the sample. The item analysis demonstrated the item-total correlation values to be suitable (ranging from .27- .46). As a result of the confirmatory factor analysis, five models were generated, and the obtained findings show the Turkish form of the scale to have adequate fit indexes and a factor structure similar to the original scale. As expected, a positive correlation was found between Schadenfreude and malicious envy, whereas a negative correlation was found between Schadenfreude and empathy. Also, the results revealed no relationship to be present between benign envy and Schadenfreude. As a result, the Turkish form of the Schadenfreude Scale consists of two factors and 11 items. According to the analysis, a variety of evidence was obtained showing the scale to be a valid and reliable measuring tool. Hence, this scale can easily be used to determine the level of Schadenfreude in future research investigating interpersonal processes, emotions, the self, and traits.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Can SEVİNÇLİ', 'Yasemin ABAYHAN']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Psikoloji Çalışmaları
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iupcd/issue/72449/873927
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1554068
