Makale Başlığı: The Effects of 1,1-Dimethylbiguanide Hydrochloride (Metformin) on Detrusor Muscle Contractile Response in Ovariectomized Female Rats
Özet: Aim: Menopause is defined as the depletion of the ovarian follicular reserve followed by the cessation of menstrual cycles. It has beenreported that gonadal steroid hormones play an important role in bladder function in women. Changes in urine pattern includingoveractive bladder, stress incontinence and recurrent urinary tract infections occur as a result of menopause. 1,1-dimethylbiguanidehydrochloride, metformin, (MET) is an oral anti-diabetic drug used to reduce hepatic glucose production and peripheral insulinresistance. Recent studies have revealed that MET has a protective effects in diabetes induced bladder dysfunction. The aim of thisstudy was to test the therapeutic potential of MET in detrusor contractile function of ovariectomized (OVX) female rats.Material and Methods: Bilateral ovariectomy was performed to eliminate endogenous gonadal steroids secretion. Four groups aredesigned with 8 animals in each group: Control, MET-administered control, OVX, and MET-administered OVX groups. MET (25 mg/kg) was administered daily by oral gavage for 14 days. Contractile activity of isolated bladder muscle strips were evaluated in vitro organbath. The contractile responses of detrusor strips were determined using different doses of carbachol (10-8-10-2M) and purinergicagonist ATP. The relaxation response of strips were determined by isoproterenolResults: The contractile responses of detrusor muscle strips to carbachol at doses 10-5-10-2 M were decreased in the OVX groupcompared to control and MET treated control groups. MET treatment partially reversed the reduction in OVX-induced contractileresponses at 10-2 and 10 -3 M carbachol doses. There were no statistically significant difference in relaxation response between theexperimental groups.Conclusion: Our findings suggest that treatment with MET could be the new potential therapeutic agent against bladder dyfunctionin postmenopausal women. Further studies are needed for the therapeutic potential of MET in detrusor dysfunction induced bymenopause.
Yazar isimleri: ['İnci TURAN', 'Salih ERDEM', 'Hale SAYAN ÖZAÇMAK']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye Diyabet ve Obezite Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tudod/issue/72430/1066739
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2227031
