Makale Başlığı: A Look at The Establishment and Development Process of Turkish-American Relations (1947-1954)
Özet: In this study, the process of establishment and development of Turkish-American relations will be examined. Having managed to protect itself from the devastating effects of the Second World War, Turkey was left alone at the end of the war. In the face of territorial demands from the Soviet Union, Turkey wanted to improve its relations with the United States. Since 1947, which was a turning point in Turkish-American relations, Turkish-American relations have begun to develop. With the Agreement of 1947, Turkish-American relations began to be based on an institutional structure. With Turkey's membership in NATO, relations with the United States and the western world have become an alliance. With its membership in NATO, Turkey has begun to see the support of NATO, with which it is an alliance partner against the danger of the USSR. After NATO membership, there has been a period of harmonious and golden age of Turkish-American relations in all areas. As the severity of the Cold War increased, Turkey began to develop harmonious relations with the United States in all areas. Turkey has started to implement its foreign policy and national strategy in accordance with the United States and NATO. With the accession to NATO, a new era has begun in Turkish-American relations. Turkey has come under the security umbrella of NATO militarily, and its relations with the west have begun to take on an institutional structure. Based on this study dec the period from 1947 to 1954, the process of the establishment and development of Turkish-American relations will be described and the factors in the process of establishing Turkish-American relations will be evaluated.
Yazar isimleri: ['Buğra SIZAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Anadolu Strateji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/anasamasd/issue/70945/1138549
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2517785
