Makale Başlığı: Ibn Vellâd’s Life, Scholarly Personality, and his Work el-İntisâr li Sîbeveyh ‘ala’l-Muberred
Özet: Ibn Vellâd was an important Egyptian linguist who lived in the 4th century Hijri. He became famous as Ibn Vellâd in association with his grandfather el-Velîd, who was known as “Vellâd”. Originally from Basra, he was one of the leading scholars of grammar in Basra. He belongs to a family of scholars. He went to Iraq to study and read el-Kitâb by al-Sîbeveyh from al-Zajjāj. He then returned to Egypt, where he was engaged in teaching and compiling books until his death. There were scholarly debates between Ibn Vellâd and Abū Cafar b. al-Nahhās. Zajjāj presented Ibn Vellâd to Abū Cafar b. al-Nahhās and praised him to the Egyptians who came to Baghdad. Since the composition of Sîbeveyh’s el-Kitâb, several studies have been conducted on the work. Some of the works have been commentaries to explain the closed aspects of the work, while others have been criticisms of the issues in the work. One of the criticisms of the work was made by Muberred. Muberred mentioned these criticisms in his work Mesâilu’l-ğalat, which has not survived. When Ibn Vellâd became aware of Muberred’s Mesâilu’l-ğalat, in which Muberred criticized Sîbeveyh, he did not agree with Muberred’s criticisms and composed his famous work el-Intisâr li Sîbeveyh ‘ale’l-Muberred in response to Muberred’s criticisms of Sîbeveyh. Ibn Vellâd responded to Muberred’s criticisms with proof by mentioning 133 issues. While responding to Muberred’s criticisms in his work, Ibn Vellâd followed the rules of grammar, provided evidence with semā’ and qiyas, included the consensus of grammatical scholars, included the views of some grammatical scholars, and explained his view on some grammatical issues. First of all, Ibn Vellâd’s life, his scholarly personality, and his work el-Intisâr li Sîbeveyh ‘ale’l-Muberred, which constitutes the subject of our study, are given in our study, and the method that Ibn Vellâd followed in the work in question is explained.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mahfuz GEYLANİ']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: İslami İlimler Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iiad/issue/73729/1167462
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2617821
