Makale Başlığı: The Role of Leader and Lead Member Interaction in Learning Organizations: The Public Example
Özet: Introduction: With technological developments, globalization and increased competiveness, the changing needs of businesses have come to the forefront in todays every changing economy. Change takes place in businesses that can produce, obtain, share and apply information. This process, which leads to changes in businesses, is defined as ‘learning organization’ in the literature. Learning organization means that the business learns the lessons from its experiences and uses this lessons to adapt to its chnaging environment. The active participation of all employees management in the organization is critical to the change process. For this reason employees need to beaware of their contribution to organizational learning, to adapting to change and to the motivation need for effcetive change. Leaders are the people who will initiate change in businesses and enable all employees/members to participate effectively in the change process. Leader ensure that the business can achieve the goals of the business through others. A Leader, is a person who influences and directs others in order to achieve organisational, personal and group goals. According to the leader member approach,different relationships are established across the organisation that influences how change can be implmented.Aim:  In this context there will be an examination of the relationship between the leader member relationship/interaction as part of the learning organization. Perception, attitudes and the effect of leader/employeer  interaction on the learning organization will be examined as part of this research. Method:Data has been collected though targeted surveys. With the Scandura and Graen (1984) 's LMX-7 scale used to measure Leader-Member interaction. The Watkins and Marsick's (1997) "Learning Organization Dimensions" Questionnaire will be  used to measure employees' perception of a learning organization. Findings: the research reveals that that there is a significant and positive relationship between employees' perceptions of leader member interaction and the learning organization. As a result of the regression analysis, it was concluded that the perception of leader member interaction has a significant effect on the perception of learning organization. With 13% of the change in employees' perception of a learning organization is explained by leader member interaction. Finally, as a result of the analysis, no differentiation was found in the leader member interaction and learning organization perception based demographic analysis on education, age, gender, etc.
Yazar isimleri: ['Seda MUMLU KARANFİL']
Yayın Yılı: 13 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Strategic Public Management Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/spmj/issue/66092/956145
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1838077
