Makale Başlığı: Planned Home Births in the Covid-19 Pandemic
Özet: AbstractSince the new coronavirus epidemic began to be seen around the world, the number of pregnant women who prefer home and birth centers has increased, and this has made licensed health professionals more important. Especially during the pandemic process, women have turned to options to give birth outside the hospital. ACOG, on the other hand, accepted that in countries with an integrated health system in this process, birth can be possible at home outside the hospital.However, in order for home births to be safe, they need to be supported by planned and expert people. Today, planned home birth rates are 10% in the USA, 12.5% in the Netherlands, where home birth is on the list of intangible cultural heritage, and less than 1% in Turkey. Evidence-based studies have indicated that the effects of planned home birth on maternal and newborn may vary. However, planned births at home increase the satisfaction rates because women are more comfortable and act more independently. However, as it can occur in every birth, risks that require urgent management may occur in home births, and home births may become worse than planned hospital births in many countries that do not have integrated obstetric services.For these reasons, it is important that especially out-of-hospital deliveries are applied to internationally accepted standards. It is accepted that home births take place with women who do not have obstetric risk factors in countries with an integrated health system, accompanied by a midwife/obstetrician who has passed special certification training, in cases where the need for transfer between the hospital and the home can be met when necessary. In this article, how the Covid 19 pandemic process affects birth preferences has been compiled in the light of safety, cost and current research.
Yazar isimleri: ['Güliz ONAT', 'Büşra DURAN']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: KTO Karatay Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ktokusbd/issue/72332/1031887
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2113099
