Makale Başlığı: An Overview of Montenegro Traditional Housing Architecture
Özet: Since the beginning of time, man has relied on natural formations to supply his basic requirements, and has gradually developed his own shelters. Within the span of settlement regions, individuals who settled down with agricultural activities developed a broad range of dwellings surrounding water. The cultural heritage of societies is made up of houses shaped according to the geographical and climatic characteristics of regions around the world, the building materials available in that region, the people's life philosophies, traditions, customs, socio-cultural characteristics, and economic conditions. Montenegro, a young country with a mountainous geography along the Mediterranean coast of the Balkan Peninsula, offers a variety of traditional house forms. By compiling the research information, a housing classification was created, and the basic properties of the houses were given in the study based on this classification. Because these houses develop in response to local conditions, they may be divided into two groups: North and South Regions. While Dinar chalet architecture, tower houses, and houses with porches / gazebos are visible in the Northern Region, Karst house architecture and Mediterranean Houses are featured in the Southern Region. These housing types are important in building Montenegro's traditional architectural cultural heritage. The article is shaped as general information about Montenegro, the historical and cultural structure of Montenegro, a general examination of Montenegro architecture, and parts of Montenegro traditional residential architecture. The study's value is enhanced by the fact that there is few academic research on the issue and that similar house styles may be found in adjacent countries such as Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Italy.
Yazar isimleri: ['Armend KANACI', 'Deniz DEMİRARSLAN', 'Emine Begüm SAVÇIN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Mimarlık ve Yaşam
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/my/issue/72227/1098280
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2352386
