Makale Başlığı: Boundary determination studies in the treaty of Passarowitz (According to Esna-ı Musalahada Tevârüd Eden Mekâtib)
Özet: ABSTRACT: Esnâ-ı Musâlahada Tevârüd Eden Mekâtib is registered in the Topkapı Palace Museum Revân Library with the numbers 1949, 1950, 1953 and it has three copies. Additionally, due to the presence of highly similar letters between mentioned manuscript above and the manuscripts registered with the name of Suver-i Mekâtib-i Musâlaha-i Nemçe, Mukâvele-i Musâlame, Mukâtaba-i Mukâleme, and Mecmu’a-i Mekâtib, it has been determined that there are different copies of that mentioned manuscript Esnâ-ı Musâlahada Tevârüd İden MekâtibManuscripts include the correspondences sent to and from Ottoman delegates with the correspondences sent to and from the ambassadors of the mediating states and the Austrian and Venetian states. In the content of these correspondences, there are important cues about the way of functioning of Ottoman diplomacy at that time and the rules related to protocol regarding foreign affairs. In addition, it is possible to find information on how the information flow was provided during and afterwards the Ottoman Campaign from the content of the correspondences received from state officials.  Another important subject in the correspondences in the manuscripts is related to border restriction studies. These correspondences include information on the ways followed in the border restriction process at that period of time and how the problems were resolved in the case of disagreements. Having this information in it increases the value of manuscripts further. In the last periods of the Ottoman Empire, studies on border restriction were initiated. This information in the content of the manuscript will also shed light on these studies. With this study, the attempt will be made to disclose the border restriction studies according to the information in the manuscript named Esna-ı Musâlahada Tevârüd Eden Mekâtib.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa ÖĞE']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Balıkesir Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/baunsobed/issue/70843/1002935
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2002974
