Makale Başlığı: WASTE SECTOR IN SOUTH AFRICA IN TERMS OF PUBLIC EXPENSES AND ANALYSIS ON THE FACTORS THAT DEFINE WASTE GENERATION
Özet: The main purpose of this study is to address the waste problem that exists especially in underdeveloped and developing countries and has the potential to grow day by day. For this, analyzes of waste types and public waste management activities in South Africa in terms of public expenditures were made. In addition, the stages of the waste process were systematically revealed by approaching the subject in a more holistic manner. For this purpose, the waste management hierarchy was emphasized. From this hierarchy, it was concluded that the most important stage for long-term waste management policies is the waste generation stage. Then, the economic and demographic factors that triggered the waste production were investigated, and parallel to this, analyzes were made on the South African sample at the end of the study. It is aimed that the results of the research will set an example for other countries with similar economic and sociological structures. In the empirical analysis part, ARDL cointegration analysis was carried out using the 2001-2020 period data of South Africa. While the gross domestic product (GDP) was determined as the economic factor determining the waste production of the country, population variables were used as the demographic factor. According to the results, long-term and statistically significant effects were found between waste production, GDP and population. Accordingly, it was concluded that a 1-unit increase in GDP will affect waste production by 3.35 units in the same direction, while the population will affect waste production by 10.9 units in the same direction. In addition, it was determined that the effect of a deviation from a short-term balance on wastes will decrease after 1.57 periods (years) and return to balance, and this is statistically significant.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hakan AKAR', 'Lütfü SİZER']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Dicle Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/diclesosbed/issue/73179/1096190
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2343689
