Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of Akdağmadeni (Yozgat) lead-zinc deposits with automatic lineament analysis
Özet: This study focuses on the extraction of the structural features of the Akdağmadeni (Yozgat) region, which is rich in metallic minerals, by using remote sensing techniques, and its importance of these techniques in mineral exploration studies. Pb-Zn mineralizations in the region are located in granite-marble contacts and within metamorphics. These mineralizations were formed by hydrothermal fluids moving along faults in N70°-80°E directions. Extracting the lineaments in this direction is very important for mining activities in the region. Due to the vegetation and steep topography that complicates the field studies, these lineaments were tried to be detected by using remote sensing techniques. In the study, maps and images obtained as a result of different lighting and directional Kernel filter applied to ASTER L1T and ASTER GDEM data were used. The lineaments of the region were extracted by applying automatic lineament analysis to these images. In order to obtain targeted results in the region dominated by intense tectonism trends, the results of the lineament analyze applied to the GDEM data prepared with a lighting angle of 135° and the PC1 image applied to the 90° directional filtering were evaluated. Due to the intense vegetation, the results obtained from the GDEM data showed better performance than the satellite image. It was determined that the results in the lineament maps showed consistent results with the existing mineralizations in the region. In particular, the lineaments that cut both units at the contacts of granite and metamorphics show new target areas for Pb-Zn mineralizations.
Yazar isimleri: ['Oktay CANBAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 14 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Niğde Ömer Halisdemir Üniversitesi Mühendislik Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ngumuh/issue/73005/1118293
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2434942
