Makale Başlığı: Parental Phubbing and Empathy as the Predictors of Adolescent Phubber Behaviors
Özet: The aim of this research is to determine whether adolescent’s phubbing is predicted by parental phubbing and empathy variables, and to examine whether adolescent’s phubbing differs according to gender, class level, smartphone ownership status, online classes, and training, as well as daily smartphone usage time. For this purpose, the study group consists total of 1019 students, 734 girls and 285 boys, from 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 in the Kestel and Gürsu districts of Bursa in the 2020 – 2021 academic year, selected by the appropriate sampling method. The research data were obtained by Generic Scale of Phubbing (GPS), Generic Scale of Being Phubbed (GPS) and KA-SI Empathic Tendency Scale Adolescent Form. Within the scope of the research, Independent-Samples t Test and One-Way Variance Analysis (ANOVA) were used to determine the difference of adolescent phubbing between groups. Multiple Linear Regression Analysis was used to determine the level of adolescent phubbing predicted by parental phubbing and empathy variables. As a result of the research, female students compared to male students; students with smartphone had higher overall phubbing scores than students without smartphone. 5th grade students had lower average scores of being phubber than other grades. Participants with daily phone usage time of 1-2 hours had lower overall phubbing scores than with 3, 4 and 5 hours. According to the results of the regression analysis, parental phubbing and empathy variables were determined to be important precursors of adolescent phubbing and explained 13.5% of the change in adolescent phubbing. The findings provided important clues in planning and implementing psychological counseling and guidance services for middle and high school students.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fuat AYDOĞDU', 'Sümeyra YAŞAR']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Pamukkale Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/pauefd/issue/72199/1042303
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2151076
