Makale Başlığı: Detection of vancomycin-resistant enterococci and vancomycin-resistance genes in patients hospitalized in the pediatric intensive care unit
Özet: Objective: Vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) infection and colonization are seen increasingly frequently, especially among intensive care unit (ICU) patients. In this study, the aim was to detect VRE in swab samples taken from patients hospitalized in the Pediatric ICU (PICU), colonization, and to investigate the clonal relationship between isolates.Method: In the present study, swab samples were taken from the external auditory canal (EAC), umbilical region, and rectal region from 82 patients hospitalized in the Çukurova University Balcalı Hospital PICU. The 246 swab samples from patients were inoculated on Kanamycin-Esculin-Azide agar. Isolates were identified with the help of the BBL Crystal Gram-Positive identification system. The susceptibility of the isolates to vancomycin (30 μg) was investigated by Kirby-Bauer disk diffusion method according to CLSI criteria. VanA-VanB genes in phenotypically defined vancomycin-resistant enterococci were investigated by Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) method. The clonal relationship between vancomycin-susceptible (VSE) and -resistant enterococci was determined by the SmaI-PFGE method.Results: A total of 49 (20.3%) enterococcal strains were isolated from 246 swab samples from the patients, of which 14 (28.5%) were VRE. Of the enterococci isolates, 27 (55.10%) were E. faecium and 13 (26.53%) were E. feacalis. While VanA type resistance was detected in 11 of the vancomycin-resistant E. faecium and E. feacalis isolates, VanB type resistance was not detected in any sample. There was no significant clonal relationship between the isolates.Conclusion: Although the prevalence of VRE in the PICU was high throughout the study, no enterococcal infection was observed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ömer OKUYAN', 'Necmi AKSARAY', 'Suna KIZILYILDIRIM', 'Cansu ÖNLEN GÜNERİ', 'Fatih KÖKSAL']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Mustafa Kemal Üniversitesi Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mkutfd/issue/73508/1113953
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2416693
