Makale Başlığı: Comparison Effects of Serum Antioxidants Levels and Intensity of Inflammatory Cells in Experimental Periodontitis Treated with Low-Dose Doxycycline and Coriandrum Sativum L
Özet: Aim: The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of systemically-administered Coriandrum sativum L (CSL) and low dose doxycycline (LDD) on serum levels of antioxidant enzymes and intensity of inflammatory cells in rats with experimental periodontitis. Material and Methods: Forty adult male Wistar Albino rats were divided randomly into 5 groups as follows: group 1: periodontally healthy (control); group 2: periodontitis; group 3: periodontitis+CSL (32mg/kg); group 4: periodontitis+CSL (200mg/kg); group 5: periodontitis+LDD (6 mg/kg). Serum gingival superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), catalase (CAT) levels were evaluated by ELISA. The intensity of inflammatory cells were evaluated by histopathologically.Results: SOD levels were statistically lowest in group 1 and statistically were highest in group 2 than those of other groups. There was a statistical difference in SOD levels in paired comparisons of groups 1 and 2 with other groups. Its level did not have statistically significant among groups 3, 4 and 5. CAT levels were statistically lowest in group 2 than those of other groups, and no differences were reported among groups 1, 3, 4, and 5. GSH-Px levels did not have statistically significant among groups. Inflammatory cell infiltration was found to be statistically higher in groups 2 and 4 compared to group 1, and no statistical significance was reported among groups 1, 3, and 5.Conclusion: CSL and LDD application groups did not show differences in terms of serum SOD, serum CAT, and intensity of inflammatory cells. Therefore, we suggest that the different dosages of CSL should be examined in the treatment of periodontitis.
Yazar isimleri: ['Şeyma BOZKURT DOĞAN', 'Umut BALLI', 'Figen ÖNGÖZ DEDE', 'Kanat GÜLLE', 'Bahattin AVCI', 'Hatice ÇÖLGEÇEN', 'Meryem AKPOLAT FERAH', 'Mazlum Bülent KURTİŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Sağlık Bilimlerinde Değer
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sabd/issue/72485/1054420
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2178898
