Makale Başlığı: THE EARLY BRONZE AGE IN CARIA REVISITED
Özet: Caria, located in the southwest of Anatolia, is a partly neglected region in terms of prehistoric studies. However, it is possible to make some general evaluations about the Early Bronze Age by compiling the current archaeological data. This article aims to understand the change in the Carian Early Bronze Age and the interactions with the surrounding regions. In the Early Bronze Age cemeteries in the region, specifically produced pithoi as burial vessels were used, multiple burials were made, there are grave markers marking the location of the graves, and some drinking rituals were performed at the graveside. In ceramics, new features appear in the Early Bronze Age II. The appearance of the Carian one-handled tankards and the first two-handled cups at the end of EBA II indicates that a new drinking culture, which began to spread throughout Anatolia, reached here and was adapted locally. The relations of Carian communities with the surrounding cultures in the Chalcolithic period gradually intensified in the Early Bronze Age. Caria took its place in a wide network of relations established between the Aegean, Anatolia and the Near East in the Early Bronze Age. One of the most important indicators of this fact is the metal finds in Carian tombs showing advanced craftsmanship. Elites who knew how to establish long-distance relations and how to provide both product and possibly technology transfer existed in the region at least from the beginning of the Early Bronze Age. There are some suggestions of "intecontextual" archaeology created by Kristiansen and Larsson (2005) regarding the adaptation process for the formation of an elite group and its acceptance by the society. Accordingly, long-distance travels, mythologizing these travels, to reinforce the status with a new dress-up and drinking rituals surrounded by prestige objects are important patterns. Personal items of a new clothing/ornament such as pins, daggers and spirals, the graveside drinking rituals, the imitation of the vessels belonging to the new Anatolian drinking ceremonies, multiple burials and grave markers as a probable marker of a new elite lineage are important element in Carian Early Bronze Age cemeteries. This process, which started with the effect of long distance travels in the Chalcolithic period, must have been reinforced by the above-mentioned elements in the Early Bronze Age. Caria seems to have adapted elements such as elites, prestige objects and the consumption of objects requiring high level of craftsmanship, and associated rituals, instead of the whole package of a Near Eastern urbanization process, within a very wide-ranging "world-system".
Yazar isimleri: ['Umay OĞUZHANOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: TÜBA-AR Türkiye Bilimler Akademisi Arkeoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tubaar/issue/70348/1001112
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1996031
