Makale Başlığı: Citizenship as a Function
Özet: Citizenship is defined as the legal bond that determines the mutual rights, duties and obligations between a particular state and a person. It is based on the assumption that the concept of modern citizenship has two separate origins in the history of Western thought. Older than these, also known as the ideal type, is the 'active citizen' model in the example of Athenian democracy. Making politics for active citizens is a duty and requires appropriate consciousness. The one that emerged in the enlightenment period in parallel with the emergence of capitalism is the 'citizen with rights as an individual' model. The state, and politics more generally, is an institution at the service of the rights-bearing individual.Adopted by some sociologists and anthropologists, functionalism is an approach that examines various institutions according to the tasks they perform in society. It sees society as a system of interrelationships in which various entities and institutions each undertake a specific activity. In this study, within the framework of functionalist theory, it will be examined how citizenship plays a role in ensuring the continuity of the social order as a social element, institution, and practice. In contemporary modern societies, the function of citizenship in the integration of the individual with the community, in other words, in providing social integration will be investigated.Capitalism and the nation-state are the most important institutional elements that are effective in the acceleration and spread of modern institutions. The nation-state is structurally a territorial and political whole. It covers the process of incorporating individuals into the political structure by equipping them with citizenship and integrating them under the name of a nation.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 28 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Erzincan Binali Yıldırım Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ebyuhfd/issue/70646/1137231
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2512947
