Makale Başlığı: Crisis communication and social media discourse of political leaders in natural disasters: Twitter posts of Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu
Özet: The efficient implementation of crisis communication depends on social media, which stands out for its speed and interactivity capabilities. With its innovative structure, social media has an advantageous position against traditional practices such as print media, bulletins, and fax news transmission. In particular, Twitter is a social network that the public and political leaders also benefit from, with its features such as instant information transfer and direct communication with the public. Politicians tend to use rhetoric aimed at influencing and persuading the public by transmitting messages on Twitter in extraordinary situations such as terrorism, war, conflict, and natural disaster. The use of Twitter in crisis communication brings a new form of political discourse to the agenda. In leader Twitter discourses, features that reinforce rhetoric such as real-time presentation of events, originality, figures, tables, and infographics come forward. In this study, the themes, and potential outcomes in Twitter discourses of the President and AK Party leader Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and the Republican People’s Party leader Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu, about the forest fires and the flood disaster in Turkey between 28 July 2021 and 20 August 2021 were analyzed in the framework of Norman Fairclough’s critical discourse analysis method. According to the analysis, it was seen that the leaders used Twitter effectively during the disaster, and they differed in using official, religious, and scientific discourses. As a result, it is obvious that Twitter is today an important digital public space for deliberation and critical discussion. In this context, Twitter is an opportunity for an effective dialogue and interaction between politicians and the public, and it is expected to continue this effect in the near future.
Yazar isimleri: ['Canay UMUNÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: NOSYON: Uluslararası Toplum ve Kültür Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/nosyon/issue/71049/1115130
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2421542
