Makale Başlığı: Knowledge, Attitude and Practice of Nurses in Managing Incontinence-Associated Dermatitis Questionnaire: Turkish Validity and Reliability Study
Özet: Objectives: This study was aimed to examine the validity and reliability of the Turkish version of the Knowledge, Attitude and Practice of Nurses in Managing Incontinence-Associated Dermatitis Questionnaire.Material and Methods: The sample of the study, which was planned as a methodological study, consisted of 272 intensive care and palliative nurses. The Translation-back translation technique was used for the language equivalence of the scale. For the validity study of the scale, content validity was calculated based on expert opinions. Explanatory and confirmatory factor analysis was used for construct validity. Test-retest correlation. item-total score correlation and Cronbach's alpha coefficient were used in the reliability analysis of the scale.Results: The content validity of the Turkish version of the scale was appropriate (CVI=0.95). The total Cronbach's alpha coefficient for the scale was 0.92, and the item-total score correlations were between 0.33 and 0.72. In confirmatory factor analysis, it was confirmed that the scale consisted of four factors that explained 63.55% of the total variance. Construct validity was supported by a factor load range of 0.62-0.83. It was determined that the scale consisted of 20 items and 4 sub-dimensions.Conclusion: The findings obtained from the analyzes performed for the adaptation of the Knowledge, Attitude and Practice of Nurses in Managing Incontinence-Associated Dermatitis Questionnaire to the Turkish society show that the Turkish version of the scale is a reliable and valid four-dimensional tool for examining nurses' knowledge, attitudes and practices about incontinence-related dermatitis.
Yazar isimleri: ['Münevver SÖNMEZ', 'Serap KORKMAZ', 'Öznur GÜRLEK KISACIK']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Hacettepe Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/husbfd/issue/70114/1030427
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2107222
