Makale Başlığı: Sharʽī Purposes of Marriage
Özet: Religion is defined as “the divine law guiding people to goodness in this world and the next”. The main purpose of revealing these divine laws/sharīʽa is to provide the peoples’ interests both in this world and in the hereafter. The religious regulations imposed by religion are for the protection of these interests and the realization of the divine purpose. Therefore essential interests are those that put the religious and worldly affairs of the servants in order and make them happy, and save the servants from frustration in this world and the next. These are the protection of mind, life (soul), religion, generation, and property. Essential interests can only be preserved by establishing them on solid foundations and by eliminating the things that would damage them. Marriage which is not just a contract has many benefits in terms of maqāṣid-i sharīʽa. These interests have many aspects e.g. biological, psychological, sociological, worldly, and otherworldly. Some of these benefits are that it ensures the tranquility of spouses, completes the deficient human being, preserves the purity the chastity, covers a physical need/sexual union, and ensures the continuation of the generation. It can be argued that the most important among these is ensuring the tranquility/peace of the spouses. In this study, the meaning and importance of tranquility in the realization of the purpose and benefit of marriage will be examined. It is an indication of this that the Shārīʽ established marriage for the reason of “finding peace” with the address “He created your wives so that you can find peace with them” (Al-Rûm, 30/21). Establishing marriage with these divine purposes in mind will contribute to the provision of individual and social peace.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sezai BEKDEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Bozok Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bozifder/issue/70894/1063542
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2214962
