Makale Başlığı: Prevalence and Characteristics of Supernumerary Premolars in a Non-Syndromic Turkish Children Between 6-18 Years of Age: A Retrospective CBCT Study
Özet: Background: The prevalence and characteristics of supernumerary premolars in non-syndromic Turkish children between 6-18 years of age was investigated in this retrospective study through CBCT (cone beam computed tomography) analysis.Methods: CBCT images of 48 patients with at least one supernumerary premolar were evaluated in 1012 images of patients referred between 2015 and 2020. The localization, number, eruption state, shape, the position of supernumerary premolar, concomitant other dental anomalies, associated complications, and the presence of resorption on the nearest adjacent teeth were recorded. The statistical analysis of possible associated factors with resorption was performed by the Chi-square test and Logistic regression. Results: The prevalence of supernumerary premolars was 4.7%. A total of 107 supernumerary premolars in 48 patients with mean age of 15.02  2.24 were analyzed. Compared to single supernumerary premolar, multiple supernumerary premolars were more prevalent (62.5%). The concomitant dental anomalies such as pulp stones, mesiodens were observed in fifteen patients (31.2%). Most of the supernumerary premolars were impacted, supplemental shaped and vertical position. The most common complication associated with supernumerary premolars was root resorption (56.4%) of neighborhood teeth. Supernumerary premolars with immature roots induced significantly higher resorption percentages than only crown ones (P = 0.002). Also, the root resorption of adjacent teeth due to supernumerary premolars was significantly higher in children over 13 years of age (P < 0.001). Conclusions: The prevalence and three-dimensional radiographic characteristics of supernumerary premolars in non-syndromic Turkish children offer valuable information to the literature and highlight the possible complications.
Yazar isimleri: ['Elif BALLIKAYA', 'Nagihan KOÇ', 'Merve KAŞIKCI']
Yayın Yılı: 24 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Selcuk Dental Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/selcukdentj/issue/72290/991041
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1956977
