Makale Başlığı: DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT OF WEB BASED YEARBOOK
Özet: Relationship is too important between instructors and studends for universities. Student information system, academic information system etc. are developed to make this relation stronger and easier. Yearbooks are entertaining part of these. Universities use many different systems for more effective communication between students and instructors. A web-based yearbook was developed for the instructors and students to immortalize all the memories they had with each other. In this way, these memories will be saved on a web-based platform, and users will be able to access or print out this information whenever they want. While creating the old-style yearbooks, not everyone was able to participate due to the difficulty of collecting information. In addition, while they were being created, yearbooks created a financial and moral burden on the person. For such reasons, integrity could not be achieved throughout the university. With the development of the web-based yearbook, all obstacles that make it difficult to access the yearbooks have been removed. The web-based yearbook can be accessed via the internet from any platform, whether mobile, tablet or computer. Regardless of any browser, all users will be able to share their opinions about each other live, within the time given to them. When necessary, users will be able to message each other over the system. Additionally, people will save more interactive information for the future with the photos and videos they add to their profiles. While developing the application within the scope of this thesis, it was developed with PHP software language using CodeIgniter framework, and MySQL database system was used.
Yazar isimleri: ['Meriç KORKMAZ', 'Vahap TECİM']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Yönetim Bilişim Sistemleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ybs/issue/67451/1025355
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2088032
