Makale Başlığı: “NEW” OPENINGS IN THE COMICS: MOTION COMICS AND TERMINOLOGICAL UNCERTAINTY
Özet: The concept of comics since its earliest definition put forward by Töpffer, it kept its definition up-to-date by following a historical process parallel to the media.  In summary, although it can be defined as a narrative type that requires text-visual coexistence and sequencing, it has been redefined by the media, where it exists first as the subject of print and then periodic publishing and popular consumption. Although these definitions remained functional until the advent of new media, they were eroded by the new forms (motion comics etc.) that emerged afterwards. Therefore, in this process, new terms have been put forward with the claim that it is a comic book.In this study, digital comics, web comics, interactive comics, hypercomics, motion comics forms that emerged in the indefinable space created by a parallel transformation to new media.and the terminological ambiguity they create were discussed.The relationship between them has been revealed by the comparative analysis of the qualitative characteristics of these terms and sample works. In addition, the vague position of motion comics which is the most recent example of this ambiguity, and other terms, against comics have been examined together with its reasons. Although academic studies on comics have gained momentum, theoretical research on the forms and terminology used after the new media is limited. Therefore, it is thought that our study will contribute to the relevant literature.The unidentified space that emerged as a result of a transformation parallel to the new media and the terminological uncertainty that emerged in this area has been the focus of our study.
Yazar isimleri: ['Rasim SARIKAYA', 'Nadire ATILGAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Akdeniz Sanat
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/akdenizsanat/issue/71562/945609
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1797943
