Makale Başlığı: Terakki and Tadelli Style in the Context of Some Verses
Özet: Arabic, one of the oldest languages in the history of humanity, has become the language of worship for all Muslims, beyond the borders of the region where it is spoken, thanks to the fact that it is the language of the Qur'an. The Holy Qur'an, which was sent as a guide to humanity, was naturally revealed in the language of the society in which the Prophet Muhammad lived. Human is a being who likes ornate expressions and artistic words in terms of his general nature. That's why; Those who gather the masses around are not those who use abstract scientific expressions, but rather the orators who appeal to emotions with artistic words and colorful depictions. Language, which is the most important tool for an adequate expression, has played a very important role in human relations, societies or individuals have been valued depending on the way and mastery of language use, and has found a place in history to the extent of this value. Since the Holy Qur'an is at its peak in literature, people who believe in it and give their hearts to it have made various studies to read and understand it correctly from the first period, taking into account the unique literary style of the Qur'an in the direction of divine command. Works such as Meâni'l-Qur'an, Ğarîbu'l-Qur'an, Te'vîlu Muskil'l-Qur'an, and I'râbu'l-Qur'an are the works that have been done for the understanding of the Qur'an since the early periods. In addition to such works, the Arabic language has been examined in every aspect to understand the Qur'an, and many studies have been made and are being carried out in the field of Arabic Language and Rhetoric until today. “Taraqqī” and “Tadallīan” styles are two phenomena that attract the attention of rhetoricians. Each of the styles of “Taraqqī” and “Tadallī” has been used in many subjects of the Qur'an. The style of terakkî is to list people of the same gender and class, from small to large, from the least to the most, from the weak to the strong. Tadellî is the opposite of this, and it is to order the mentioned things from top to bottom. This style is suitable for the muktaza situation, strengthens the evidence presented, and becomes more impressive for the addressee. In Arabic, words are arranged in order of importance, priority, and compatibility. This line-up has many purposes. This harmony further enhances the beauty of the Arabic language. In Arabic, words either qualify or become adjectives for another word. All the eloquence figures in it are within the borders of Arabic language characteristics. Many of the later commentaries were made with selected examples from ancient Arabic poetry. Taraqqī and Tadallī styles are considered as one of important beauties of Arabic language and rhetoric. The scholars of rhetoric have looked at the literal and spiritual elements related to sentences and words and have come up with a name for each beauty they have uncovered. These two styles are in accordance with the situation required by the situation in the Supreme Qur'an, making the evidence more eloquent in challenging and binding, and stronger to convince the addressee. Rhetoricians and commentators have paid particular attention to these two styles. Because this style makes the word sweeter and affects the addressee. In addition, this style is one of the elements that reveal the I’jaz aspect of the Qur'an. In this study, these two styles will be examined in the light of some examples in the Holy Qur'an.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammed Meşhud HAKÇIOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Marife Dini Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://marife.org/tr/pub/issue/71001/1067986
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2231778
