Makale Başlığı: Determination of Geographical Concepts in the Heidi Storybook
Özet: Geography; It is a branch of science that examines elements such as time, space and people and makes explanations or definitions about the relations between these elements, evaluates the relations between them in the context of cause and effect and offers solutions. As in all other disciplines, concepts form the basis of geography. In this context, it is possible for individuals to know the environment they live in from close to far, to understand different lifestyles and cultures, by learning geography subjects and concepts related to geography. The purpose of this study is to determine the geographical concepts and the categories of these concepts in the Heidi story book. The study was carried out with document analysis, one of the qualitative research methods. The Heidi story book, which was adapted into Turkish by Sevgi Sonkan, written by Johanna Spyri, was used as a data source in the research. While determining the data source, it was taken into account that the story book is suitable for the development levels of primary school students and that it is among the 100 Basic Works determined by the Ministry of National Education. As a result of the study, it is seen that 41 geographical concepts are included in the Heidi story book. 29 of these concepts are in the field of physical geography, 8 of them are in the field of human and economic geography, and 4 of them are in the field of general geography. The fact that the geographical concepts identified in the Heidi story book are generally included in the category of physical geography can be explained by the fact that the place where the story takes place is mountains and plateaus and the description of these places. As a result of the study, it can be suggested that students should be supported to learn concepts by choosing books that will support the concept teaching process in the teaching of geography subjects.
Yazar isimleri: ['Büşra Nur TURAN', 'Rabia ASAL ÖZKAN', 'Yurdal DİKMENLİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Sakarya Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sakaefd/issue/70412/1055792
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2183904
