Makale Başlığı: The Basis of Immortalıty in the Context of Personal Identity
Özet: Our article aims to critically examine whether the idea of immortality can be logically grounded by considering the basic foundations of the idea of immortality in the context of personal identity from a philosophical perspective, and to reach a consistent conclusion by discussing whether the individual can exist again with his personal identity in the post-death life. The idea of immortality is not only related to religious beliefs, but also to philosophical thought and scientific aspects. When we look at the problem in question from this perspective, it is worth noting that human life is different from other created beings, and at the beginning of these differences, human life cannot be limited between birth and death. When we examine the basic foundations of the idea of immortality on the axis of personal identity in the history of thought, we see that it is an issue that philosophers and theologians emphasize. The religious, philosophical and existential aspects of this problem are as old as human history. In the context of personal identity, the existence of the afterlife is extremely important for the identity of the person. Another dimension of the problem is that there are different opinions on this issue, what the basic foundations of the idea of immortality, which expresses existential value for one's personal identity, might be, and it is very important to evaluate them from a philosophical point of view and discuss them consistently. Our study aims to discuss on the philosophical and theological approaches that are not based on experience on the grounding of the idea of immortality. The main purpose of our article is to discuss the basic foundations of the idea of immortality in a rational, comprehensive and consistent manner, whether or not the identity of the person in the post-mortem life is possible, taking into account the "basic foundations of the idea of immortality in the context of personal identity". Our main question here is: Is it possible to justify the idea of immortality in the context of personal identity from a philosophical point of view with the aforementioned grounds?
Yazar isimleri: ['Sait POLAT']
Yayın Yılı: 14 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: İhya Uluslararası İslam Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ihya/issue/71248/1072567
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2249682
