Makale Başlığı: A Study on Relationship Between Social Adaptation Processes and Religiosity Levels of Children of Divorced Parents
Özet: Today, divorce is a common situation. Divorce means the end of family unity when one of the spouses decides to divorce the other. Divorce, which has increased over time, brings many troubles and difficulties. It is seen that the divorce rates in Turkey are increasing day by day. Divorce primarily affects the divorced individuals and indirectly the society. Since children are not prepared for the divorce situation their ties with their parents are severed, they are affected beyond measure by this situation and experience social adaptation problems as a result of the negative situations they experience in this process. This article is a research conducted to determine the relationship between the social adaptation process of the children from divorced families and their level of religiosity. The article also examined the relationships between the demographic characteristics of the participants (gender, family income level, family education level, place of residence, cohabitants) and their post-divorce adjustment levels. "Religiosity Scale" and "Post-Divorce Adjustment Scale" and the Personal Information Form developed by the researcher were used in the study conducted with a sample group of 111 children between the ages of 12 and 17 from divorced families. In the analysis of the obtained data; statistical package program was used. According to the findings, significant relationships were found in some sub-dimensions of post-divorce adjustment and religiosity. Considering the relationship between post-divorce adjustment and religiosity scales; There isn’t any relationship between the level of religiosity of the children of divorced families and the level of adjustment after divorce. While it was determined that there was a significant relationship between conflict and poor adjustment, social support and faith-religious emotion-effect, there was a significant correlation between depression and anxiety and faith-religious emotion-effect dimension, conflict and poor adjustment, depression and anxiety, social support and worship. Not any relationship was found. In the analysis of whether the independent variable of religiosity had an effect on the dependent variable, post-divorce adjustment, it was seen that religiosity had no effect on adjustment after divorce. In the analyzes regarding whether religiosity has an effect on post-divorce adjustment dimensions, it is seen that conflict and poor adjustment dimensions have no effect on religiosity, while depression and anxiety and social support dimensions have a positive effect on religiosity.
Yazar isimleri: ['Amine AKDEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Din Psikolojisi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tdpd/issue/70822/1039615
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2144359
