Makale Başlığı: GAMIFICATION PRACTICE WITHIN THE NEW HEDONIC CONSUMPTION PERSPECTIVE:  INVESTIGATION OF THE PRODUCT CONSUMPTION EXPERIENCE IN THE DORITOS RISK # risevarmisin AD SERIES
Özet: The primary purpose of studies on consumer behavior is to understand the motivation and consumption action of the individual. In the first studies to understand consumer behavior, it is accepted that the act of consuming is the output of a cognitive process. However, this presupposition is insufficient to explain the consumption practices of today's postmodern subjects. In this context, hedonic consumption has become popular, explaining irrational consumption behaviors in the center of pleasure and satisfaction. Hedonic and utilitarian consumption are generally considered in the literature as consumption acts that contradict and deny each other. However, the distinction between hedonic and utilitarian values becomes ambiguous as consumption becomes a purposeful experience rather than an instrumental act. In this framework, Horiuchi (2003) developed the New Hedonic Consumption Perspective (NHCP) and repositioned the concept of "pleasure." Aiming to combine utilitarian and hedonic consumption under one model, NHCP examines the definition of pleasure and emphasizes the concept of "rational pleasure." One of the product consumption experiences that can be considered within the scope of rational pleasure is gamification, which is among the postmodern marketing strategies. In the product and service market, where experience consumption comes to the fore, gamification can be encountered in every element of the marketing mix. The components of the gamified consumption experience promised in the "Doritos Risk #riskevarmısın" advertisement series of the Doritos Risk product, which is discussed within the scope of the study, will be examined by content analysis method and addressed in the NHCP center.
Yazar isimleri: ['Esra Pelin GÜREGEN', 'Esin Selin GÜREGEN']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Akdeniz Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aksos/issue/70389/1091818
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2326116
