Makale Başlığı: Investigation of Women's Awareness Levels of Domestic Violence
Özet: Objective: The study was conducted to examine the awareness levels of women about domestic violence.Material and Method: The population of the descriptive study consists of women between the ages of 18-65 residing in Artvin and Osmaniye. The study was completed with 433 participants who met the research criteria. The data were collected using the “Sociodemographic Data Form” and the “Domestic Violence Awareness Scale”.Findings: 37,9% of the participants were exposed to family violence. Women reported verbal and emotional violence (21%) as the most common type of violence. 17,8% of women have been exposed to violence by more than one person. The total mean score of Domestic Violence Awareness Scale is 24,15±0,22. A statistically significant difference was found between the age, employment status, education level, marital status, number of children and type of marriage of the woman and her husband, and the total mean score of Domestic Violence Awareness Scale. A statistically significant difference was found between the type of violence and the total mean score of Domestic Violence Awareness Scale. According to this, the total mean score of Domestic Violence Awareness Scale of the women who were exposed to economic violence was found to be statistically significantly higher than the women who were not exposed to domestic violence, who were exposed to verbal emotional violence, and who were exposed to multiple violence.Conclusion: In the study, it was determined that women's awareness of domestic violence was at a low level. Factors affecting the awareness of domestic violence and the level of family violence awareness of women should be evaluated; Studies should be carried out to raise awareness about domestic violence and to prevent violence.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hacer ATAMAN', 'Adile BOZKURT', 'Ceyda ÖZTÜRK AKDENİZ']
Yayın Yılı: 18 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Sürekli Tıp Eğitimi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sted/issue/73460/1149434
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2560000
