Makale Başlığı: Factors affecting the corporate reputation of Bartın forestry organization
Özet: This study was carried out to identify and improve the corporate reputation of the forestry organization of the Bartın province (Bartın Forestry Enterprise Directorate, Ulus Forestry Enterprise Directorate, and Bartın Nature Conservation and National Parks Branch Directorate) in the eyes of external stakeholders. A survey form consisting of three parts was prepared. The survey forms were filled with 308 people from the external stakeholders of the forestry organization (sector enterprises, public institutions, NGOs, auction customers, city and village people) through face-to-face interviews and e-mails. The collected data were evaluated via descriptive statistics, correlation analysis, factor analysis, and the Kruskal-Wallis H test. The analysis of the answers of 55 statements/questions having a 5-point Likert scale and the evaluations performed indicated that the corporate reputation level of the Bartın forestry organization in the eyes of external stakeholders is at a "medium-high" level with a Likert score of 181.07. In addition to the six dimensions (emotional attraction, products and services, financial performance, vision and leadership, work environment, and social responsibility) developed by Fombrun (1996), “institutional relations” as a seventh dimension was used to measure corporate reputation. The factor analysis showed that the most important factors affecting the corporate reputation of the forestry organization, in order of importance are: 1) Institutional relations, 2) products and services, 3) vision and leadership, 4) financial performance, 5) social responsibility, 6) work environment and 7) emotional attraction. The results showed that 68.92% of the corporate reputation of the forestry organization of the Bartın province was explained by these seven factors. Besides, while the total corporate reputation differs significantly at the level of 99% according to the stakeholder group to which the participants belong, their activity area, relationship with the forestry organization, the number of employees, duty, and gender of the participant, it does not differ according to the age and education level of the participants. Finally, some improvement directions were identified to increase the corporate reputation of the forestry organization in the province of Bartın.
Yazar isimleri: ['İsmet DAŞDEMİR', 'Ali ÇULLU']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye Ormancılık Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tjf/issue/72759/1120649
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2444572
