Makale Başlığı: The tragedy of an individual revolt: The representation of a woman in ‘Three Billboards Outside Ebbing Missouri’
Özet: Even in the rapidly changing mass media environment of the 21st century, American Cinema continues to claim to be a part of popular culture. For this reason, Hollywood and American society occupy a key position in popular culture in the film industry. Films play an effective role in shaping social, cultural, political and economic perceptions through the representations they create. For this reason, the masculine and feminine representation in a movie reflects the ideology, cultural and social structure of the society in which it is produced. Until this century, American Cinema has handled the representations of men and women through patriarchal perspective and normative ideologies. The Women's Liberation Movement (WLM) in the 1960s led to a great increase in the role of women in social life. However, in the 21st century, male dominance is still prevalent in many film industries. The representations of women in Hollywood movies have been mostly limited to the perspective of men and a masculine cinema since the beginning. However, the image of woman in today's American cinema offers a stronger representation against the dominant ideology and patriarchal system. From this perspective, women's power and freedom has a new vision in American cinema.In this study, the figure of woman, challenging the traditional depictions of women in the patriarchal family and social order in Hollywood, was analyzed with the movie 'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing Missouri'. The construction of representation and meaning in the film is analyzed with the theory of symbolic interactionism. Feminist film analysis method was used in the analysis of power relations between women and men and to indicate the position of women in society.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ece EROL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: NOSYON: Uluslararası Toplum ve Kültür Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/nosyon/issue/71049/1112572
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2411168
