Makale Başlığı: Investigation of Knowledge Level of Health Personnel Working in COVID-19 Clinics and Compliance with Isolation Measures
Özet: This study aims to determine the level of knowledge of healthcare personnel working in COVID-19 clinics and to assess their compliance with the isolation precautions. This descriptive-correlational study was conducted between June 1 and June 30, 2020, and involved 136 healthcare personnel working in the COVID-19 clinics of a university hospital who volunteered to take part in the study, and who subsequently took part in face-to-face interviews. The data was collected using a personal information form that included descriptive properties and a Compliance Scale with Isolation Precautions (CSIP). Mean age of the healthcare personnel was 34.11±7.65 (years), and 64.7% were female. The mean CSIP score was 76.16±14.02. Almost all of the participants had received training in isolation precautions, and a large majority found the training to be adequate. The mean CSIP scores of the female participants were significantly higher than that of their male counterparts (P<0.05). The mean CSIP score of the respondents with Master’s degrees was significantly higher than that of those with Associate’s degrees. The answers to the questions associated with the level of knowledge of COVID-19 and the necessary associated care were correct at a high rate. Almost all of the participants were found to have undergone training in isolation precautions, and most found the education to be adequate. Compliance with the isolation precautions applied due to COVID-19 was considered to be good since the mean CSIP scores were high and the level of knowledge was good in all groups of occupation.
Yazar isimleri: ['Dudu ALPTEKİN', 'Derya GEZER', 'Esma GÖKÇE', 'Hamide ŞİŞMAN', 'Refiye ÖZGEN', 'Sevban ARSLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Black Sea Journal of Health Science
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bshealthscience/issue/68048/1117288
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2430404
