Makale Başlığı: GREEN PERCEPTION IN ONLINE TOURIST REVIEWS: AN INVESTIGATION OF LEED CERTIFIED ACCOMMODATION FACILITIES
Özet: Online tourist reviews are widely used to identify and evaluate a wide variety of tourism-related products and services. Sustainable products and green services for all industries and workplaces; with the increasing environmental awareness, it has started to be applied in the most beneficial way for the society. The aim of this research is to determine how tourists evaluate green practices by examining the user comments on the TripAdvisor web site of the accommodation establishments in Turkey, which are evaluated by applying for the Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) certificate issued by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC). The basis of the study is to investigate the effect of LEED certification criteria and the perception of quality rather than determining tourist satisfaction. Content analysis and document review techniques were used in the research. 25 accommodation businesses that have applied for LEED certificate until April 2, 2022 constitute the universe of the research. 5 businesses could not be analyzed as they are not yet operational. WebHarvy Web Scraping Software and MAXQDA 2021 programs were used in the data collection process of the research. As a result of the content analysis, the main and sub-themes were formed by examining 10,954 tourist reviews of 20 accommodation businesses that have certificates and whose certificate applications have not been finalized yet. In accommodation establishments that apply LEED certification criteria; how energy saving practices, environmentally friendly designs and green services are perceived by tourists has been revealed. The "green hotel perception" of tourists was investigated by analyzing online tourist reviews about accommodation establishments through content analysis. The results reveal how accommodation businesses should implement a quality, qualified and environmentalist approach. According to the results of the research; it is suggested that how businesses should adopt auditable green practices to create environmentally friendly brands.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Oğuzhan İLBAN', 'Sinan Baran BAYAR', 'Büşra KAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Pamukkale Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/pausbed/issue/73609/1145297
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2544310
