Makale Başlığı: The Ilm al-Adab Understandung in Miftâh al-Ulûm
Özet: al-Miftâh, which is known for its influence on the compilation of balaghah sciences such as al-maani and al-bayan in the Islamic tradition, actually has a much more comprehensive and systematic content ranging from al-nahw to logic and poetry. al-Sakkâkî expresses this content in the introduction of the work as ilm al-adab. This attitude of the author, in a way, means the classification of Arabic language and literature sciences. However, the main purpose of al-Miftâh is much more fundamental than that and focuses on the idea of how to explain the meaning and literary value of regular linguistic expressions. On the other hand, the explanations made in the introduction part of the work contain clues about how the author conceives the concept of al-adab and what his approach is towards language and literature studies as a whole. By al-adab, al-Sakkâkî does not mean a language/literary faculty, which means the ability to use the language at the highest level and quality. On the contrary, the author understands ilm al-adab to understand/explain any statement formed in the Arabic language or to avoid mistakes in constructing a new statement, in other words, to reach the theoretical competence that can take the path based on correct knowledge. In this sense, the main concern and orientation in the work of al-Miftâh is not to create a practical and actual competence in the reader, but purely theoretical. As a natural consequence of this theoretical attitude on the subject of ilm al-adab, some types of al-adab such as al-maani, al-bayan, al-istidlâl, poetry require a high intellectual effort. For this very reason, people who are engaged in this science (sâhib al-adab) have not written a pen in all related branches of science. Undoubtedly, this situation has a relation with the general scientific knowledge of the people in question. As a matter of fact, the perception of ilm al-adab in the general science public, as of the period in which al-Sakkâkî lived, is rather limited to al-luga and al-nahw sciences. However, al-Miftâh is an assertive and effective text in all sub-branches of ilm al-adab called al-usûl, especially in the compilation of balaghah sciences. On the other hand, the content and systematics of al-Miftâh show that al-Sakkâkî’s main purpose is not to make a complete list and classification of ilm al-adab. Because the author does not include all sub-titles of literature in his work. In his own words, the author included the literary genres he deems necessary for his work. What is meant by this; these are the fields of al-adab such as al-nahw, al-maani, al-bayan and al-istidlâl, which are the subject of theoretical analysis and are organized as a science. This shows that al-Miftâh was written in complete agreement with the theoretical understanding of al-adab set forth in the introduction of the work.
Yazar isimleri: ['Abdullah YILDIRIM']
Yayın Yılı: 14 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: İhya Uluslararası İslam Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ihya/issue/71248/1107622
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2391181
