Makale Başlığı: RETROGRADE INTRARENAL SURGERY VS MINI-PERCUTANEUS NEPHROLITHOTOMY IN THE MANAGEMENT OF 10-20 MM LOWER POLE KIDNEY STONES: A PROPENSITY MATCHED ANALYSIS
Özet: ObjectiveIn urology guidelines, endourological treatmentssuch as percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL)and retrograde intrarenal surgery (RIRS) arerecommended for lower pole stones with a diameter of10-20 mm, especially in cases where extracorporealshock wave lithotripsy (SWL) fails or SWL is notappropriate. In this study, we compared the results ofpatients who underwent RIRS and mini percutaneousnephrolithotomy (m-PCNL) for lower pole stones witha diameter of 10-20 mm.Material and MethodThe data of 187 patients (116 RIRS, 71 m-PCNL)who underwent endourological treatment (RIRS orm-PCNL) for 10-20 mm lower pole kidney stonesbetween 2020 and 2022 were retrospectivelyanalyzed. To avoid preoperative biases, propensityscore-matching was applied based on a 1:1 ratio.According to the results of the analysis, 65 patientswho underwent RIRS and 65 patients who underwentm-PCNL were included in the study. Intraoperative(operation time, fluoroscopy time) and postoperativefindings (hospitalization time, drop in hematocrit,stone-free rates, and complications) were comparedbetween the two groups. Postoperative stonedetection of 4 mm or larger was defined as clinicallysignificant residue. Complications were classifiedaccording to the Clavien scoring system and asintraoperative-postoperative.ResultsWhen the two groups were compared in terms ofdemographic characteristics (age, gender, bodymass index) and radiographic stone characteristics(stone size, stone laterality, stone opacity, and stonedensity), no statistically significant difference wasobserved. When the groups were compared in termsof operation time, fluoroscopy time and hospitalizationtime, these periods were statistically significantlyshorter in the RIRS group (p<0.001). In addition, thedecrease in the amount of hematocrit in the RIRSgroup was significantly less than in the m-PCNL group(p<0.001). When the postoperative stone-free ratesand intraoperative and postoperative complicationrates were examined, it was seen that the results inboth groups were similar.ConclusionRIRS operation is an effective and successfulendourological treatment alternative with stonefreerates and complication rates similar to m-PCNLoperation in lower pole kidney stones between 10-20mm. However, the fact that the RIRS operation hasshorter operation, fluoroscopy and hospitalizationtimes compared to the m-PCNL operation and causesless blood loss shows that it can be applied morereliably.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet GUZEL', 'Hakan ANIL', 'Ali YILDIZ', 'Kaan KARAMIK', 'Serkan AKDEMİR', 'Taylan OKSAY', 'Murat ARSLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: SDÜ Tıp Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sdutfd/issue/72867/1114005
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2416863
