Makale Başlığı: FASHION IN INTERCULTURAL INTERACTION: SOUTH AMERICAN PONCHO WITH BYZANTINE CLOAK
Özet: It is known that clothing started with the need to cover, and today it gives direction to different styles within the framework of fashion. This situation created the need for diversity and enabled different styles and directions to interact in designs. With this in mind, it is aimed to create a new product by matching two different clothing cultures. Within the scope of the study, the 'Andean Poncho' belonging to the South American culture with its simplicity and wide area of use, and the 'Byzantine Cape' reflecting the ostentatiousness and splendor of the Byzantine costumes were used. The new product, designed with the interaction of these two cultures, is called 'Panlerin'. In the design of 'Panlerin', the effects of two civilizations were tried to be reflected. With the literature review method, different cultures and clothes reflecting these cultures were examined and the civilizations and design criteria to be studied were determined. In order to create the design in the context of the elements that emerged as a result of the examinations, the design process, which started with the sketch drawing, was followed by artistic drawing and technical drawing, and then the sewing processes of the design whose pattern was created with the draping method. The story and color board reflecting the theme of the design was prepared, and the final version of the design, which was stitched with inspired visuals and colors, was shown on the moodboard. As a result of the study, the clothing culture; It is seen that the countries are moving in parallel with the level of development. Geographical location and climatic conditions are also among the factors affecting clothing. The need for covering has left its place as a status indicator or periodical fashion trends.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nazan AVCIOĞLU KALEBEK', 'Altınay SAYAR', 'Figen KÕSE']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Journal of Fashion Design and Management
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tjfdm/issue/73228/1071830
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2247182
