Makale Başlığı: The Paleographic Study on the Samarkand Copy of Atebetü’l-Hakâyık Written in Old Uyghur Script
Özet: Atebetü’l-Hakâyık is a religious and moral advice book by Edib Ahmed Yüknekî, which is thought to have been written in the 12th century and considered one of the works of the Karakhanid Turkish era. There are five known copies of Atebetü’l-Hakâyık, today. These copies are the Samarkand copy, the Ayasofya [Hagia Sophia] copy, the Topkapı copy, the Uzunköprü copy introduced by Fuat Köprülü but lost now, and the Hollanda [Netherland] copy introduced in all aspects for the first time in 2019. Apart from these copies, there are verses belonging to Atebetü’l-Hakâyık in a magazine in Ankara and among the Turkish Uyghur texts of the Prussian Academy of Sciences in Berlin. Also, there are verses thought to belong to Atebetü’l-Hakâyık in Alī Şīr Nevāyī’s Nesāyimü’l-Maḥabbe min Şemāyimi’l-Fütüvve. Necip Asım [Yazıksız] introduced the Ayasofya copy of Atebetü’l-Hakâyık to the world of science in 1906. He published this copy in two volumes in 1918. The first volume of this work consists of text, translation and notes, and the second volume consists of facsimile. In 1925, he wrote an article comparing the copies of Samarkand and Ayasofya. In this article, he showed the Uyghur letters used in two copies with two separate tables. However, there are some deficiencies and inaccuracies in the tables given. One of the most important sources about the Yükneki’s work is Reşit Rahmeti Arat’s Atebetü’l-Hakayık comparing the available copies. In our article, the old Uyghur letters used in the Samarkand copy and the examples of these letters from the text, the structures written regularly and irregularly apart from the word, the correction marks used in the copy, the paleographic and some phonetic features of the Samarkand copy will be given.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fikret YILDIRIM', 'Gizem Nur ÇAPA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Korkut Ata Türkiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/korkutataturkiyat/issue/72388/1123528
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2456497
