Makale Başlığı: A Study on Ablution Places in the Context of the Historical Process of the Shadirvan Architecture
Özet: Due to the importance of the "water" element in Islam, special structures have been built for water in every period of Islamic history. It is possible to summarize these structures as “fountain”, “sabil” and “shadirvan” in general. It could be stated that among these structures, especially the shadirvans were built for the function of performing ablution in religious buildings such as mosques and masjids. Besides the shadirvans, "ablution places", which are not called "shadirvan" but contain the function of performing ablution, have also been built in the last hundred years. In this study, first of all, all places and structures that have the function of performing ablution are expressed as “structures for performing ablution” and defined under this concept. Afterwards, the common and general architectural features of structures for performing ablution and their ergonomic parameters according to anthropometric data are examined with various examples. Afterwards, a survey was conducted on three hundred and eighty-nine people in order to identify current user problems and complaints regarding these structures. In addition, an interview was conducted with the Construction and Real Estate Department, which is affiliated to the Presidency of Religious Affairs of Turkey, to investigate the current status of the constructions of ablution structures in our country and the production strategies of these structures. As a result of the survey and researches, it has been seen that the structures for performing ablution carry a contemporary architectural problem based on "Function" and "Ergonomics". In the study, with a unique approach, the sub-components of the structures for performing ablution were searched for the mathematical value ranges for these components. Starting from the problematic, the idea of producing design parameters and standards for the production of these structures was proposed in the study, in which solution-oriented ideas are shared in a scientific framework.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hüseyin ULUSOY', 'Erdem KÖYMEN']
Yayın Yılı: 2 Mayıs 2022
Dergi ismi: Süleyman Demirel Üniversitesi Fen-Edebiyat Fakültesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sufesosbil/issue/69783/1081528
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2284499
