Makale Başlığı: Techno-Economic and Environmental Analysis of a Photovoltaic Energy System Utilization for a Container Port in the Marmara Region in Turkey
Özet: Container ships and ports, that have developed in the world since the 1960s, have important roles for the foreign trade of Turkey, as well as for the transportation of cabotage and transit cargoes. Container ports, especially in the Marmara Region, have an important share in the total container handling capacity of Turkey. On the other hand, solar-based electricity generation has become widespread in Turkey as well as in the world, and therefore this technology should be benefited as much as possible at the Turkish container ports. The aim of this study is to carry out a techno-economic and environmental analysis of a photovoltaic renewable energy system installation for a large-size container port in the Marmara (Kocaeli) Region. In accordance with this aim, a large-sized container port has been investigated, and its annual electricity need has been detected, and the appropriate PV system power has been determined by using the Photovoltaic Geographical Information System software, respectively. Additionally, the initial investment cost and payback period of the PV system have been calculated by using the Reduced Payback Time Method, and the environmental effects of PV system to be installed regarding harmful greenhouse gas emissions have been analyzed by using RET Screen software. As a result of this study, it is found that a PV system with a power of 962 k Wp can be installed on the roofs of enclosed buildings in the container port and the PV system with this power can produce 1,061,034 kWh of electricity per a year. The payback period for the PV system investment to be made in the port is determined as 8.33 years. It also determined that the PV system to be installed can prevent 37.7 tCO2/year greenhouse gas emissions per a year. With the electricity to be produced from the PV system, 9.47% of the annual electricity need of the port can be provided. In this study, some suggestions are also presented in order to contribute to the maximum utilization of the PV system of a sea port. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Ali Riza DAL', 'Fatih YILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Bilecik Şeyh Edebali Üniversitesi Fen Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bseufbd/issue/70447/1073878
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2254763
