Makale Başlığı: Scientific Communication in the Field of Folklore: Bibliometric Examination of Local and Global Networks
Özet: The main expectation from academic outputs is to make an original contribution to the field of science.This contribution, which can be followed through citations, is one of the important indicators of the effectiveness of publications and academic journals in the field. This activity can be shaped by different dynamics for  different research areas. Folklore is a field of humanities with a predominant national character because its field of study is subjects of a particular group of peoples. In this context, it is possible that different factors such as language and cultural proximity, apart from publication quality, have an impact on the evaluation of the field through citations. The main purpose of our study is to reveal the basic dynamics of scientific activity in the field of folklore through the journal Millî Folklor (MF) and other folklore journals. In this context, the scientific communication processes of the folklore discipline will be discussed with bibliometric methods in our study. In our study, the analyzes were carried out in two stages. Firstly, the position of MF and other folklore journals in the field is discussed with their publication numbers and citations. Secondly, the citation dynamics of the folklore field were examined through the publications citing to folklore journals. As a result, obtained from the bibliometrics analysis, it was seen that when MF is evaluated together with other folklore journals, it stands at a different point in terms of the number of citations and publications. In terms of citation averages, "Journal of Folklore Research" and "Journal of American Folklore" are prominent in the field. It has been determined that the citation lag value and the half-life value which indicates literature obsolescence differ considerably between journals. It was observed that 50% of the cited publications of the “Journal of American Folklore” started to be cited in the first year, while this value was 3 years for MF. In the list created according to literature obsolescence values, MF is the journal with the lowest half-life value among the journals evaluated. In the second part of the study, it was examined which disciplines citing to the field of folklore, it has been revealed that the fields of anthropology and history are prominent and the share of citations taken from outside of the folklore field. It has also been revealed that the share of citations to folklore publications from other research fields in total citations has increased over the years. Finally, diversity analyzes were carried out on the citations of folklore publications. In the diversity analyses carried out, it was examined in which sources the citations received by the journals were concentrated and whether this created a bias towards the citations received. These analyzes were carried out in the context of the scientific fields, countries, and journals of the publications citing to folklore publications. As a result of the diversity analysis, it is seen that in the citation tendencies of the folklore journals, language, culture and spatial proximity are the basis of the citation dynamics for the field. In the analysis made in the context of the languages of the journals in the field, it was seen that while Turkish, Spanish and German were in the periphery, the journals with the English language were in the central position and the publications in these English journals had a high tendency to get citations from different countries, scientific fields, and journals.
Yazar isimleri: ['Talih ÖZTÜRK', 'Haydar YALÇIN']
Yayın Yılı: 11 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Milli Folklor
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/millifolklor/issue/73825/1077547
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2269320
