Makale Başlığı: TODAY AND TOMORROW OF SYRIANS’ INTEGRATION: TRANSFORMATION AND MANAGEMENT OF SOCIAL PERCEPTIONS
Özet: Purpose: This study aims, first, to reveal the current situation regarding the integration of Syrians by analyzing the social perceptions towards Syrians in Turkish society, and then to make suggestions based on future projections informed by an analysis of the relationship between social perceptions and integration processes.Methodology: The research analyzes the quantitative and qualitative data collected within the scope of the Syrians Barometer (SB) research. Within the scope of the SB, which is a periodically repeated research, quantitative data is obtained from public opinion surveys conducted on a large sample that is representative on a national scale; while qualitative data is obtained from Focus Group Discussions. Qualitative data, which forms the backbone of this study, is analyzed using MAXQDA software.Findings: Syrian refugees have started to arrive in Turkey in 2011, and although their presence in Turkey was expected to be 'temporary' by both the state and the society in the initial years, a majority of the Turkish society today thinks that the Syrians will stay permanently in the country. In this context, the issue of 'integration', which was not on the agenda in the first years of the process, gained importance. In addition, the perception of 'victims' in defining Syrians which was dominant in the first years was replaced by the perception of 'security threats', who harmed Turkey and will cause more harm in the future, with the prolongation of the process and the increase in numbers. Turkish society perceives Syrians predominantly as a ‘closed’ and 'conservative' community with ‘no intention to integrate'. In addition, the possibility of a common life in harmony with Syrians does not seem very strong within Turkish society. Finally, while the rising discriminatory language and securitizing environment make it difficult for Syrians to adapt today, they will strengthen themselves in a vicious circle and make it even more difficult in the future unless the necessary steps are taken.Originality: While the relationship between social perceptions and integration processes is widely discussed in the literature, the analysis presented in this study on the negative effects of the rising discriminatory discourses and securitization on the integration processes of Syrians and the steps to be taken to eliminate these effects is considered to be an original contribution.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kadir Onur UNUTULMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 11 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: İstanbul Ticaret Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iticusbe/issue/72897/1100192
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2360710
