Makale Başlığı: Evidences of Islamic Knowledge Heritage in Said Nursi's Works
Özet: Said Nursi (1878-1960) was a scholar and thinker who grew up in the Ottoman period. He wrote 130 epistles on Islamic sciences such as tafsir, hadith, morality, rhetoric and logic, and primarily kalâm. In this article, we tried to prove whether he took into account the styles and methods of the previous scholars while naming these epistles, producing the sections of the epistles and examining the issues, and if so, how he presented it, through examples and by making comparisons. Said Nursi could not complete his madrasa education due to the adversarial conditions he faced led to speculation in academic circles regarding his lack of competence in the fields of sciences such as logic, language, tafsir, hadith, fiqh and kalâm. Even though he composed many works, which significantly influenced the Muslims in Turkey, it caused doubts about his scientific acumen in some circles. In this study, we wanted to clarify whether this claim is relevant by comparing the works of Said Nursi with the works of some distinguished scholars in terms of name, title, method and content. It is understood that his works show remarkable similarities with the works of eminent historical scholars of Islamic knowledge in terms of the choice of both the title and chapter name, his preference of scientific terminology, application methods, and the level of expression according to his addressees. For example, in language and rhetoric, the study determined that he had adopted the style of Abdulqadi Jurjani, Al-Zamakhshari and Sekkaki and referred to the methods and opinions of the specialist scholars of the field in every discipline. The research results have concluded that Said Nursi's works are really in touch with Muslim knowledge tradition, but not satisfied with them, contributing original ideas; they are based on a well-established tradition of more than fourteen hundred years. Thus, the speculations formed around his scientific acumen are not based on the examinations made on his works and that the claims and evaluations are baseless.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Muhakemat Uluslararası Risale-i Nur Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/muhakemat/issue/69926/1123127
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2454852
