Makale Başlığı: Determination of Water Quality of Karpuz Stream (Antalya) Based on Physicochemical Parameters
Özet: In this study, the physicochemical properties of Karpuz Stream (Antalya) were investigated and water quality classes were determined. Ten stations were selected along the river and water samples were collected and analyzed seasonally between December 2012 and September 2013. Nitrate nitrogen, nitrite nitrogen, ammonium nitrogen, biochemical oxygen demand, chloride ion, ortho-phosphate phosphorus measurements were made in the samples taken. pH, dissolved oxygen, water temperature and electrical conductivity values were determined with a multiparameter device during field studies. When the obtained values were evaluated statistically, only seasonal significant differences were observed in terms of temperature and dissolved oxygen (p<0.05). When the comparison between stations was made, it was determined that all parameters except temperature differed significantly. It is thought that these differences are caused by the special ecological characteristics and environmental pressures of the stations close to the sea. Due to these effects, a decrease in the water quality of these stations was also detected. According to the general classification of water quality, it has been determined that the stream is in the class of unpolluted / less polluted and does not contain adverse conditions for life. Despite the agricultural areas, settlements and touristic activities around Karpuz Stream, it is not exposed to an intense pollutant pressure. The water quality classification was made according to the YSKY (surface water quality regulation) and Klee’s method and it was determined that the stream is in the unpolluted / less polluted class and does not contain adverse conditions for life. Despite the agricultural areas, settlements and touristic activities around Karpuz Stream, it is not exposed to an intense pollutant pressure.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ömer ERDOĞAN', 'Büşra KARAKAŞ', 'Melek ZEYBEK YÜNLÜ']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Süleyman Demirel Üniversitesi Fen Edebiyat Fakültesi Fen Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sdufeffd/issue/73519/1107132
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2389183
