Makale Başlığı: The Correlations Between Nursing and Medical Students’ Values and Social Innovation Tendencies
Özet: DOI: 10.26650/FNJN363993Aim: This study aimed to determine thecorrelation between values and social innovation tendencies of nursing andmedical students and examine the effect of values on social innovationtendencies.Method: This descriptive and correlationalstudy consisted of 524 third-year students at nursing and medical faculties ina public university in Istanbul (response rate of 57.1%). The data of the studywere collected using the information form, Portrait Values Questionnaire, andSocial Innovation Scale. The data were collected between December 2015 and May2016. The data were analyzed using descriptive and correlational analyses, andthe factors affecting the score of social innovation were analyzed using linearregression analysis (backward).Results: A positive significant correlationwas determined between the total scores of Portrait Values Questionnaire andSocial Innovation Scale (r=0.453). The subscale mean scores of Portrait ValuesQuestionnaire had an effect of 26.6% in total score of Social Innovation Scale.In the regression model where significance was determined (F=37.566;p<0.01), the highest effect was observed in the subscale of universalism.Conclusion: The value of universalismaffected the social innovation for both groups at the most, which is anexpected result by the nature of these occupations. The value of openness toinnovation including self-direction and stimulation in medical students had asignificant effect on the total score of social innovation, which is compatiblewith innovative behavior literature. These results are expected to guideeducators and managers in developing socially innovative behaviors. Cite this article as: Sönmez, B., Azizoğlu,F., Hapçıoğlu, B.S., Yıldırım, A. (2019). The correlations between nursing andmedical students’ values and social innovationtendencies. FNJN Florence Nightingale Journal of Nursing, 27(3), 263-274.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ekim 2019
Dergi ismi: Florence Nightingale Hemşirelik Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/fnjn/issue/49592/606398
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/835375
