Makale Başlığı: An Evaluation on Textbooks Used for Teaching Japanese as a Foreign Language in the 16th – 19th Centuries:  European's Japanese Textbooks
Özet: The relationship between Japan, China and Korea dates back to ancient times. However, Japan’s relationship with the European countries began at the 16th century. Although Europe was far from Japan, they showed interest in Japan primarily for trade and missionary purposes. Studies in medicine and astronomy were among the activities of missionaries to influence the public. Therefore, they have been in Japan for many years for various reasons such as trade and missionary work, and during this time they have learned Japanese. Moreover, they did not only learn Japanese, but also compiled the notes they took, the conversations they recorded with Japanese people, and the explanations about the writing system in order to make Japanese language more understandable. In this study, it is aimed to introduce the books on Japanese language education written and published by Europeans via compilation method. Each of the books written by Europeans has an important common feature in terms of being published for the first time in its own country. However, each work has a unique feature in the period in which it was written, and this feature contributes to Japanese language education. As a result of the study, it is understood that it contributes to phonology, etymology and syntax research, while it gives information about the Japanese language of the period in which the textbooks were written. In addition, as a result of the comparison of Japanese language with European languages, it is understood that it has contributed to both comparative linguistics research and the creation of the content of today's Japanese textbooks by transferring the writing system to the Latin alphabet.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 25 Eylül 2021
Dergi ismi: Kesit Akademi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kesitakademi/issue/65705/1019294
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2064378
