Makale Başlığı: THE EFFECT OF REGULAR SPORTS CLIMBING ON UPPER EXTREMITY STRENGTH
Özet: The presence of upper extremity strength can positively affect athletes physically, psychologically and mentally in sports climbing. The aim of this study is to examine the effect of regular sports climbing on upper extremity strength such as handgrip, finger and arm. This thesis was designed as an experimental study involving a control group. Within this scope, the control group consisted of 12 sedentary people, while the study group consisted of 12 sports climbers with medium level sports climbing skills and at least 2-3 years of experience. Age, height and weight measurements of the study and control groups were made before the research. Upper extract of the study and control group measurements were taken before the starting point of the study and at the end of 8 weeks. The study group regularly climbed 3 times a week for 2-4 hours for 8 weeks. Athletes practiced on the 17 m high climbing wall, which has negative slopes, too. During the climbs, the researchers were present at the application area for control. Jamar brand hydraulic finger dynamometer was used for finger strength measurement, Takei Grip-D brand digital hand dynamometer was used for handgrip strength and twisted arm hanging test was performed for arm endurance. SPSS 22.0 package program was used for data analysis and descriptive information. In our thesis study, there were increases in right- and left-hand grip strength, right and left finger strength and arm endurance, and statistically significant differences was found. There were also significant differences between the pre-test and post-test dissimilarities between the study group and the control group. As a result, it was concluded that regular sport climbing had a positive effect on hand grip strength, finger strength and arm endurance.
Yazar isimleri: ['Burak GÜRER']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: SPORMETRE Beden Eğitimi ve Spor Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/spormetre/issue/72637/1083470
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2292527
