Makale Başlığı: Early Age and Forced Marriages At Childhood
Özet: Child marriage is a type of violation of human rights and is also considered as child neglect and abuse. The fact that child marriages are encountered both in Turkey and all over the world shows that this issue is not a local problem, but a global one. The share of girls in child marriages is higher. Recently, the rate of marriages before the age of 18 has been decreasing, albeit slowly. However, it is still not at the desired level. Much can be said about the reasons for child marriages. Child marriages in underdeveloped and developing countries have reasons such as sociocultural, gender inequality, poverty, low level of education, wars, domestic violence, social pressure and tradition. These causes vary by region and society, and often overlap and reinforce each other. The mental and physical development of girls who get married are adversely affected. Children in the developmental period come under a heavy burden with marriage and the mental health of children is adversely affected. Early marriages also negatively affect physical health, trigger sexually transmitted diseases, increase the risk of maternal and infant mortality by causing early and frequent pregnancies, force individuals to be uneducated and leave them poor. Multidisciplinary studies should be carried out to prevent child marriages. The society should be informed about early and forced marriages at a young age and social awareness should be created. The education level of girls should be increased and their attendance at school should be ensured. Socioeconomic empowerment of families may also prevent children from marrying at an early age. When faced with child marriages, legal actions must be taken. Family, society and the state have important duties in preventing child marriage, which is a multidimensional problem.
Yazar isimleri: ['Melis ÇELEBİ', 'Birgül PİYAL']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Journal of Family Medicine and Primary Care
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tjfmpc/issue/72693/1097766
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2350088
