Makale Başlığı: A Type of Aydim (Song) from Tukmens in Afghanistan: Noy Noy
Özet: Folk song is a product of folk literature in which the people tell their joy, sadness, desires and rebellionswith a melody with the motifs of their own culture. In folk songs that do not have a subject limitation, anythingthat affects the society can be the subject of the song. The subject of the folk songs belonging to the Turkishcommunities living in the south of Afghanistan, which is a Turkish homeland is as diverse as the folk songs ofTurkey. Turkmens, who had to leave their ancestral homeland about a century ago, were able to maintain theirexistence in Afghanistan, where they later settled, by being loyal to their cultures and languages, despite all the difficulties. Turkmen people and poets have brought the folk literature genres that reflect the Turkmen culture, history, customs and traditions to the present day. Turkmenistan toy intellectuals are dead or yar-yar aydims. The toy aydims, called noy noy, performed by Turkmen women in Afghanistan, are different from the Turkmen toy folk songs in terms of some shape and content features. Noy noys, which usually consist of quatrains, are composed of six lines, albeit a little. Since there are refrains in the form of noy noy at the end of each line, these toy aydim are called noy noy. It is aimed to make the bride or her mother cry and to anger her through satire by means of the noy noys said on the wedding day and during the bridal reception as the purpose of entertainment. Afghan women, who are not allowed to play any instruments, can only have fun among themselves on the wedding day. Turkmen women perform noy noy by playing teprek. Each woman in the group sings noy noy to the accompaniment of teprek, individually or together. Sometimes in the form of bickering, weddings, meetings, etc., which we encounter in the Turkish world and in the folklore of the Anatolian field. Noy noys, which are partially similar to the wedding folk songs sung in different places, show some differences from other wedding folk songs in the Turkic world in terms of content and form. The noy noy aydim, which we cannot see in Turkmenistan folklore, is a new noy aydim that emerged in Afghanistan forty-fifty years ago. It seems that this genre has not been studied or studied as a folklore genre. Women, who are considered private in many societies and whose social and family roles are mostly determined by men, actually serve the survival of societies as the carrier of cultural heritage. Turkmen women living in Afghanistan, like other Afghan women, were deprived of many rights in social life and could not have a say. However, women have undoubtedly played an important role throughout history in keeping Turkmen folklore, especially Turkmen intellectuals alive. The noy noys, which are the products of oral culture used in the study, were compiled from among the Turkmens of the Ersari tribe living in the north of Afghanistan. It is aimed to create a source for the studies on the Turkmen oral tradition, which has a rich folklore with noy noy, a folk song that women sing among themselves. In addition, considering that Afghanistan Turkmen folklore has not been sufficiently researched, it is aimed to record and keep alive the noy noy aydims and to introduce them to the scientific world.
Yazar isimleri: ['Savaş ŞAHİN']
Yayın Yılı: 11 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Milli Folklor
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/millifolklor/issue/73825/1104655
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2378965
