Makale Başlığı: The Use Of Uav In Logistics Activities: A Research On Uav Pilots
Özet: Today, the level of technology compliance with logistics activities has become animportant parameter that affects competition for businesses. Transport vehicles and vehicleswhose growth momentum has increased since the beginning of the new millennium show thatthis is a period on the verge of revolutionary developments in terms of both transportation andinternational trade. One of the important building blocks of this development has been airtransportation. Again, unmanned aerial vehicles technologies constitute one of the mostimportant aspects of air transportation in recent years. In this context, the interest in UAV (Drones) has beenincreasing due to low cost and technological development.More importantly, the use of UAVs in professional logistics activities has been rising in theR&D planning of many national and international organizations. A total of 301 questionnaireswere obtained in the study. 301 UAV0-UHA1 pilots who were trained which are traininginstitutions approved by the General Directorate of Civil Aviation, participated in the study.Participants who used a UAV. In this study, it has been determined that the use of UnmannedAerial Vehicles in the Logistics sector causes a difference in the professional perceptions ofdrone pilots. According to the participants' UAV pilot license, it was observed that theperceptions of the pilots with UAV0 license regarding the perceived benefit dimension ofunmanned aerial vehicles were higher than that of UAV1. Research results show us that the agegroups, especially the 26-45 age group, are the ones who use this technology the most.Especially the young age group's interest in drone technology will create a good ground for thedevelopment of technology in our country in the coming years. UAVs show that they will bemore accepted in the logistics sector in the future with the development of infrastructure andlegal processes
Yazar isimleri: ['Talha Burak ÇALIŞKAN', 'Ramazan ERTURGUT']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Uygulamalı Bilimler Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ubfdergisi/issue/70238/1060710
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2203530
