Makale Başlığı: The comparison of  open reduction-internal fixation and resection arthroplasty techniques in the treatment of Mason type III radial head fractures
Özet: Objectives: The aim of this study is to retrospectively compare a series of patients surgically treated with ORIF or early resection arthroplasty due to isolated comminuted radial head fractures. Patients and Methods: Thirty-four patients with isolated comminuted fractures of the radial head (Mason type 3) were operated on (ORIF in 19 patients, resection arthroplasty in 15 patients) between the years 2009-2013. The mean age was 38,5 years in ORIF group and 54 in resection group. The carrying angle (CA) and ulnar variance were measured bilaterally and radiographs were reviewed for degenerative elbow arthritis. The Mayo elbow performance score, 'Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Score, Turkish version' (DASH-T) and 'Visual Analog Scala' (VAS) were used to evaluate the clinical results.  Results: The mean follow up period was 40, 2 months in ORIF group and 44,4 months in resection group. In ORIF group, 11 of the patients were rated as excellent, 6 as good and 2 as fair clinically.  In the resection group 7 of the patients were rated as excellent, 5 as good and 2 as fair. We did not find statistically significant difference regarding clinical and radiological outcomes between ORIF and resection groups.  Conclusion: With these short-term results, resection artroplasty may be considered as an effective method in the treatment of isolated comminuted radial head fractures as being less techniqually demanding and also permiting early postoperative motion. However, the patients should be evaluated in detail, regarding ligamentous injuries before the application of resection arthroplasty. DOI: 10.3944/AOTT.2016.16.0014This abstract belongs to the un-edited version of the article and is only for informative purposes. Published version may differ from the current version.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yunus Akman', 'Erhan Sukur']
Yayın Yılı: 3 Haziran 2016
Dergi ismi: Acta Orthopaedica et Traumatologica Turcica
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aott/issue/18258/192620
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/user/project/new
