Makale Başlığı: Validity and Reliability of the Turkish "Patient-Rated Wrist Evaluation" Questionnaire
Özet: Objectives: ThePatient-Rated Wrist Evaluation (PRWE) is a self-administered outcome questionnaire which is used to determine the level of pain and disability in wrist problems. The scale includes pain (PRWE-P) and function (PRWE-F) subscales, with the latter consisting of specific function (PRWE-SF) and usual (PRWE_UF) function. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the validity and reliability of the Turkish version of the Patient-Rated Wrist Evaluation (PRWE) scale.  Patients and Methods: The study included110 patients with distal radius fracture, carpal tunnel syndrome, wrist ganglion cyst, De Quervain syndrome and connective lesions affecting the wrist, who completed the PRWE-T and DASH-T scales. The reliability of the scale was evaluated via an internal consistency analysis, and a factor analysis was used in order to determine the validity of the PRWE-T scale. Moreover, the correlation level between PRWE-T and DASH-T scores was examined. Results: Cronbach α coefficient was calculated for PRWE-P, PRWE  and PRWE, respectively, as 0.86, 0.82 and 0.88 for the scale and all subscales. The Turkish version of PRWE scale was found to be highly reliable. A statistically significant correlation was found between PRWE-T and DASH-T within the criterion-related validity analysis (Spearman's rho=0.9). Conclusion:  The Turkish version of the PRWE questionnaire was found to be valid and reliable. It is therefore suggested for use in evaluating patient based pain and disability level in routine clinical practices. DOI: 10.3944/AOTT.2015.14.0208This abstract belongs to the un-edited version of the article and is only for informative purposes. Published version may differ from the current version.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bahar Ozgul']
Yayın Yılı: 3 Haziran 2016
Dergi ismi: Acta Orthopaedica et Traumatologica Turcica
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aott/issue/18258/192474
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/user/project/new
