Makale Başlığı: Emulation of the Art of Painting in Turkish Photography Since 2000
Özet: Abstract The phenomenon of art, which emerged as a universal language with human senses and consciousness, is being reinterpreted and transformed by the values of each society and the original gaze of the artists. The pioneering or hidden reflections of technological and socio-cultural transformations are interpreted as form and content in works of art and as a result, a new narrative language and aesthetic dimension develops. Works of art, interdisciplinary interaction, multicultural sharing, citation, emulation, etc. have contemporary aesthetic-technical language. Photography is one of the branches of art in which these features are seen the most. The emergence of Postmodernist works in Turkish photographic art, which has the motto of determining the existing reality, has a history as late as the 2000s, apart from Şahin Kaygun's pioneering vision shaped by traditional methods in the 1980-90s.  In Nazif Topçuoğlu's fictional photographs from 2002 to the present day, in which the adolescent sexuality bearing the traces of the painter Balthus is predominantly reflected, the repetition of the Caravaggio light with photographic techniques, the photographic interpretations of Rembrandt works, Jacques-Louis David's The Death of Marat or the impressionist painting tradition form the basis of his pioneering vision. In 2009, artist Emine Ceylan exhibited her ‘Time Travel’ series and included Leonardo da Vinci, Rosetti, Klimt, Zhang Xiaogang, Piatakhin et al. The well-known works of the important artists of the art of painting from the Renaissance to the present day have been reinterpreted as photography. Although Ceylan's photographs in which she uses his daughter Asiye as a model are formally adhered to the original paintings, the identity of the artist is reflected with small interventions. In her series 'Modern Turkish Painting as a Self-Portrait' that she started in 2011, Özlem Şimşek reinterprets the women's identities reflected in Turkish painting as self-portraits and questions women's identity, art and women's relationship. Within the scope of this article, it is aimed to examine the dialogues of Turkish Photography with the art of painting in historical and cultural vision within the framework of Postmodernist aesthetics and theories.
Yazar isimleri: ['Işık SEZER', 'Pınar BOZTEPE MUTLU']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Sosyal Bilimler ve Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/usbed/issue/70167/1160269
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2589248
