Makale Başlığı: FACTS AND COMMENTS
Özet: This article covers Türkiye (Turkey)-Armenia relations as well as internal and international developments of Armenia in the period of January-June 2022. The Karabagh War led to a substantial change in the region, opening new horizons for establishing peace, stability, cooperation, and neighborly relations in the region.The first step to activate this huge regional potential will be the signing of the Peace Treaty between Armenia and Azerbaijan. Despite mutually expressed constructive rhetoric to this end, no concrete development could be achieved during the period under review. Meanwhile, the peace treaty process with Azerbaijan caused heated arguments in internal politics of Armenia. As the work of the OSCE Minsk Group co-chairs was adversely affected following the war in Ukraine, initiatives by the European Union to fill the void has come to the fore. Russia appeared to note this development favored by Armenia with circumspection. Another noteworthy development has been the initiation of a process of normalization of relations between Türkiye and Armenia, both sides designating special representatives for negotiations. The special representatives have met three times, first in Moscow and twice in Vienna. Türkiye’s insistence on holding the talks directly in respective capitals could not be realized due to Armenia’s preference to conduct them with a third-party involvement. Regarding regional cooperation, the proposal promulgated by the Presidents of Türkiye and Azerbaijan to establish a platform of six convened for its first meeting in Moscow, with one absentee, Georgia, on political bilateral differences with Russia. As was to be expected, this regional approach has received a cool reaction by non-regional parties with interest in the region.The month April was again an occasion to bring into agenda the unfounded Armenian narrative and allegations. It was again the US administration that went to extremes, with the US President repeating the very biased, baseless allegation of “genocide” multiple times. This accusation that is used by the US and the West in general clearly reveals that it is employed as a political tool to exert political pressure. However, this rhetoric is in fact casting a shadow to their own credibility, trustworthiness, neutrality, and influence.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 14 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Review of Armenian Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ras/issue/73420/1204073
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2770411
