Makale Başlığı: CHILDHOOD'S SOCIOLOGICAL ADVENTURE AND SOCIAL ACCEPTANCE
Özet: This study aims to discuss the child as a reflection of social processes and the sociological meaning of childhood by explaining the adventure of childhood in the academic literature in Turkey. Sociological meaning emerges as a result of social conditions and experiences. From this point of view, the meaning of childhood in every period is a reflection of social processes. The aim of the study is to be able to read the social change and development of childhood. Today's childhood studies are carried out in relation to the sociological context and include the reflection of social transformation in the field of childhood. Thus, a historical and cultural link can be established between social events and childhood perception. With this aspect, the document analysis method was preferred in our study. For this purpose, the interpretative approach, which is the basic approach, was used and the findings obtained within the framework of this approach were systematically processed.In the study, in the light of socio-cultural theories, social development theories, especially in socio-cultural theory, are based on the aspect of better explaining both social development and reflection on childhood. According to the short results of the study, the social appearance of childhood changes according to the reflection of institutional changes depending on the social changes experienced. Changes in economic, political and social life from ancient times to the present have affected both the role and functions of the child in society and the perception of childhood. Understanding these changes and meeting new needs is possible with the childhood discussions, including the child, today. Especially with the changes in the social and intellectual fields after industrialization, the perception of childhood has changed and this is reflected in the academic literature.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sevim ATİLA DEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Akdeniz Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aksos/issue/70389/1102311
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2369562
