Makale Başlığı: THE IMPACT OF ISTANBUL AIRPORT ON ISTANBUL TRAFFIC
Özet: Airports, which have an important place in the transportation sector, have an important share in being one of the entry points representing the country and city. Nowadays, airline transportation, which shortens time and distances, has gradually increased and became the most important sector of world transportation and provided great facilities. Attention should be paid to the importance of the quality of services provided at airports, both nationally and internationally. The concept of urban logistics has become very important as a result of the increasing migration from rural areas to cities in recent years. The majority of the population in Turkey began to live in cities. The migration of cities has brought new problems. Problems such as traffic congestion, air pollution, noise pollution, environmental pollution and waste come first among these problems. The concept of urban logistics emerging in recent years has focused on the solution of these problems. Successful implementation of urban logistics is important for those living in the city. The concept of urban logistics becomes even more important for Istanbul, one of the largest metropolitan cities in the world. The fact that Atatürk Airport remained in the city caused problems such as traffic congestion, environmental pollution and lack of capacity. Istanbul Airport was put into operation to solve these problems. In today's conditions, the intensity and the transportation of these passengers to the airports, which are used by people from every group, are of great importance. In this study, the study of the impact of Istanbul New Airport on Istanbul traffic, comparison with Atatürk Airport, and evaluation in terms of urban logistics and capacity are included.
Yazar isimleri: ['Furkan MOR', 'Mustafa ILICALI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: İstanbul Ticaret Üniversitesi Teknoloji ve Uygulamalı Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/icujtas/issue/68686/1088791
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2313679
