Makale Başlığı: ABOUT THE STUDY OF SUNGAK BURIALS OF THE TURKIC KHAGANATE IN THE MOUNTAINOUS TERRITORY OF THE TASHKENT REGION
Özet: In the article, the arecological excavations carried out in the Sungak burials belonging to the Kökturk Khaganate period located on the shores of the Charvak reservoir of the Tashkent province of Uzbekistan and the scientific results obtained here are mentioned. The findings obtained in the archaeological excavations carried out since 2020 are compared with the finds in other settlements and burial traditions, and there are general similarities as well as peculiarities in the aforementioned burial corps. In the aforementioned cemetery, human and animal bones, as well as ceramic vessels of various shapes, various iron-made items and work tools were found. The human bones in the graves, especially the measurements taken on the human skull, the direction in which some human bones were found, the condition of the stone bones, and the gender distinction were taken into consideration. While specifying the age of the deceased, the degree of closure of the clefts in the head bones, the wear of the teeth and the formation stages of the bone knuckles were taken into account. The findings obtained in Sungak, the local burial customs of the Kökturk Khaganate period and the economic and social lifestyle of the people of the region where the campus is located are emphasized. The inhabitants of the sponge burial kurgan belong to the group of relics peculiar to the Old Turkish period of the nomadic societies dealing with animal husbandry, which includes local cultural elements. It is understood that the owners of the tomb kurgan had close relations with the inhabitants of the neighboring regions: Chirchik – Ahangaran valley, Southern Kazakhstan, Talas, Farğana and Jetisu regions. The new finds from the sponge burial corps, the historiography of the very contemporary and controversial Kavunchı culture of the culture and history of the societies living in the middle of the first millennium BC of the Central Asian lands, the ethnic structure of the Chirchik valley upper basin, the burial customs and religious traditions of animal husbandry nomadic communities. It is understood that it will serve as a resource for the examination of issues such as world perspectives. Since the migration processes that took place in the Eurasian steppes at the aforementioned dates are examined and more understandable, the Sungak burials and similar ones should be examined more deeply in the future.
Yazar isimleri: ['Raxmanali MURADALİYEV']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Genel Türk Tarihi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gttad/issue/71320/1105353
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2381820
