Makale Başlığı: Depiction in Arabic Poetry (The Example of Halil Merdem Bek)
Özet: No matter how different their language, religion, race, culture and lifestyle are, it is thought that human beings have used the depiction style knowingly or unknowingly to express their feelings such as joy and sadness since the first known date. It is known that many poets described what they saw, heard, heard and lived in their environment, inspired by the environment they lived in, from the times when writing was not used or widespread until today. Arab poets also wrote poems about deserts, valleys, abandoned ruins, shining stars, rains, clouds, horses, camels and plants in accordance with their environment and living conditions, and they used a descriptive style in these poems.Starting from the classical period, the main subject of Arabic poetry genres is generally; He creates narrative types such as fahr, medih, ghazal, satire, elegy and depiction. In the following periods, many subjects such as ihvaniyyat, hamriyyat, nature, wisdom, asceticism and praise of the Prophet were added to these subjects. It is seen that the poet Merdem Bek also includes these main subjects in his poems, however, he tends to the subject of description more than other subjects.Halil Merdem Bek prepared by Mehmet Köklüdağ about Halil Merdem Bek and XX. The fact that there is no significant study other than the article "Halil Merdem Bek" in the Turkish Religious Foundation's Encyclopedia of Islam by Muhammed Abdullatîf Salih al-Ferfur and his master's thesis named "The Place in the 20th Century Arabic Literature" makes the study important.Halil Merdem Bek is a Syrian statesman who lived in the last periods of the Ottoman Empire, the French occupation and the establishment of the Syrian State, and is one of the pioneers of modern Arabic literature. In addition to many books, literary studies and investigations, he also wrote a great divan of poetry. While conveying the themes that make up the main subject of the poem, he used literary styles, including the description, in order to convey his feelings, thoughts and ideas to the reader and listener in the best way possible.As it can be understood from his biography, Halil Merdem Bek has been working on the Arabic language since his childhood and started to write his first poems at a young age. The fact that he lost his father when he was ten years old and his mother when he was fourteen was perhaps the most important factor affecting Merdem Bek in his inclination towards poetry. The lessons, syntax, poetry and Arabic literature that he took from the important scholars of the period were influential in his skillful use of literary arts.Merdem Bek has used the depiction style a lot in his poems in his divan. The poet gave priority to the sensory description, especially the description for the sense of sight and hearing, in these poems. In his poems, he portrayed every object he saw, heard and smelled in nature as he wanted to feel. Sometimes, he went out of nature and described expressions such as God, beauty and regrets, which are abstract concepts, and used sensory shapes as a symbolic tool to describe the things he imagined in these descriptions.Merdem Bek frequently used the arts such as simile, metaphor and diagnosis in his poems about depiction, and he handled different themes in his descriptive poems. In addition to embroidering on natural themes such as Dimashk, Guta, sun, sea and river, he also wrote descriptive poems on different themes describing the butterfly, lily, lover, regrets and the beauty of Allah.In Merdem Bek's divan, there are many main subjects such as description, fahr, medih, ghazal, dirge and ihvâniyyat. It is seen that the poet gives more weight to the subject of description compared to other subjects, and even often includes descriptions in his poems about other subjects. In our opinion, an academic study by examining all of the poet's poems in terms of content and structure will contribute to the field of Arabic Language and Rhetoric.
Yazar isimleri: ['Süleyman CAN', 'Recep KIRCI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Amasya İlahiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/amailad/issue/70416/1096885
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2346386
