Makale Başlığı: The Development of Turkish Intelligence Units After 1880 and Deep State Structures
Özet: Political approaches and social structures of states with close borders are affected by each other. It is seen that these states follow similar foreign policies in terms of border security. States have always benefited from the work of intelligence units to ensure their security inside and outside the country. The development of intelligence units is as important as the developments in the military and economic fields. In the international arena, there are areas of activity in which the intelligence agencies of the countries act jointly. Intelligence activities are affected by the socio-cultural structures of countries. There may be areas where intelligence creates a pressure factor on the society during information gathering activities. The assimilation of the rule of law principle by all state organs can eliminate the use of the state's authority, which we can refer to as the establishment of the deep state, in a way that creates separatism over various social groups. The aim of this study; To explain the concept of intelligence, to explain the different organizational structures of the Turkish intelligence units from the last periods of the Ottoman Empire to the present, and to make the activities of the deep state structures that emerged as a result of illegal practices of intelligence activities visible and debatable. The scope of the study is to define the concept of intelligence, to explain the intelligence activities, to identify the common and different features of the western intelligence units with the Turkish intelligence units. The main question of the study is; It is to determine whether the activities of intelligence applications that are not within the framework of the law can be prevented.
Yazar isimleri: ['Aysuhan GÜREL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Anadolu Üniversitesi İktisat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aujfe/issue/73430/1153403
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2573218
