Makale Başlığı: ART AND LIFE IN SCHOPENHAUER AND NIETZSCHE
Özet: This study discussses Nietzsche’s and Schopenhauer’s understanding of life through their approaches to tragedy. Nietzsche overcomes Schopenhauer’s pessimism by looking at life through an artistic scope. In Schopenhauer, first we have demonstrated the relationship between principium individuationis and will. We came across that in this relationship, one can silence the will, even for a moment, through art. For Schopenhauer, life is something one has to somehow make oneself independent from it. Tragedy, which reveals the antagonism of life, mirrors the desperation of human in this effort for independence. Secondly, we have argued that Nietzsche took on a different direction as he establishes close ties between life and art. We have also argued that his aim of evaluating art through the eyes of life in The Birth of Tragedy turned into an aim of evaluating life through the eyes of art in his other works. In this study, we have not considered The Birth of Tragedy apart from Nietzsche’s other works. We have interpreted the duplicity of Apollo-Dionysus introduced in this book in a context transcending the boundaries of art. Accordingly, we have shown that the tragedy that renders this duplicity visible encourages the richness of life beyond good and evil. Finally, we have asserted that Nietzsche was able to transcend Schopenhauer’s pessimism with a Dionysian affirmation while at the same time not denying the horror and terror of existence. We have demonstrated that while Schopenhauer regards art as consolation with his idea of world as representation and will, Nietzsche considers life as something that does not need consolation with the idea of Apollonian and Dionysian art.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşe Bilge DEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 10 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: FLSF Felsefe ve Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/flsf/issue/73763/1105102
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2380666
