Makale Başlığı: Influence of Opening Ratio and Position in Infill Wall on Constitutive Law of Equivalent Compression Strut
Özet: Infillwalls are widely used in any building to create a separation between spacesintended for different purposes. In general, partial openings exist in infillwall with different opening ratio and position due to architecturalconsiderations, functional needs and aesthetic concerns. In current practice,buildings are considered as bare frames ignoring infills and openings. However,infill walls and partial openings may significantly affect the seismic behaviorof structures. Equivalent compression strut model is frequently used inmodelling of infill walls for structural analysis. Accordingly, theforce-displacement (F–D)relationship of equivalent compression strut is quite important in nonlinearanalysis of infilled frames. In particular, opening sizes and position areessential parameters in order to properly constitute F–D relationship of infill wall with openings simulated bymeans of an equivalent compression strut. In this study, F–D relationship ofequivalent compression strut is determined for different opening ratios andpositions in infill wall considering three different F–D relationship models available in the literature. Themaximum strength of equivalent compression strut and the correspondingdisplacement, the compression cracking force and the correspondingdisplacement, the residual strength and the axial compressive stiffness of thestrut are compared and discussed for different constitutive F–D laws. It is foundthat force values of F–Drelationships decrease as opening ratio increases. However, displacement valuesare not generally effected by opening ratio or position. Furthermore, openingsupon the diagonal are more influential on F–D relationships of equivalent compression strut incomparison to other opening positions.
Yazar isimleri: ['Onur ÖZTÜRKOĞLU', 'Taner UÇAR']
Yayın Yılı: 10 Ekim 2019
Dergi ismi: European Journal of Engineering and Natural Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ejens/issue/49410/372891
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/826663
