Makale Başlığı: Effects of Carbohydrate and Fats in Turkish Patients with Type 2 Diabetes
Özet: Aim: This study aimed to assess the effects of different kinds of diet, which were similar in total energy density but different in carbohydrate and fats, on some blood parameters in type 2 diabetics. Materials and Methods: In this study, 33 type 2 diabetics, participants were offered two different kinds of lunches within 7 days intervals. Venous blood samples were collected from the participants half an hour before and after the consumption of these meals (0-180 minutes). Blood parameters such as glucose, insulin, low-density lipoprotein (LDL-C), high-density lipoprotein (HDL-C), and triglyceride were analyzed through blood samples.Results: There was no significance between the values of the change in blood glucose before and after their consumption of the standard meal and etli ekmek. After the consumption of the etli ekmek difference between the participants’ mean insulin level values at 60 and 90 minutes was lower than the standard meal. The values under the curve (AUC) were found to be significant (p<0.05). To come to conclusion, 30 minutes after the consumption of etli ekmek and standard meal, the mean triglyceride level of participants was 218.79±91.2 mg/dL and 245.46±8 mg/ dL, respectively (p<0,05). According to blood lipids, postprandial HDL-C, LDL-C was not significant between the meals (p>0.05).Conclusion: As with other research in the literature, in comparison with foods high in carbohydrates, foods high in fat later have glycemic effects. It is necessary to conduct more detailed studies on the effect of traditional and common foods on the blood parameters of diabetics.
Yazar isimleri: ['M. Gizem KESER', 'Hülya HACİŞAHİNOĞULLARI', 'Kubilay KARŞIDAĞ', 'Hüsamettin VATANSEV', 'Suleyman IPEKCİ', 'Hafize YAĞCILAR TAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Contemporary Medicine
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jcm/issue/72813/1033320
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2118635
