Makale Başlığı: Weekend Qur’ân Teaching Program in Mosques: The Case of DIB and DITIB
Özet: The education of the Qur'an covers a process that begins with the first revelation to Muhammad (s.a.w.) and will continue until the Day of Judgment. Having started in the house of Al-Arqam Ibn Abi al-Arqam in Mecca and turned into an institutionalized structure in the Masjid an-Nabawi in Medina,  this education has been continuing in many countries around the world since then. On the one hand, the Qur'anic recitation was taught through the worship activities in the Masjid-i-Nabawi, on the other hand, the educational activities such as faith, worship, morality, science, and wisdom were also covered. The leading students of the Quranic education were people of “Suffa” in that period, including men, women, children, and people from all age groups of the society. In addition to their role and place in worship, the mosques,  are regarded as the places where education and training activities carried out, since Prophet's Mosque at first,  and these worship centers played important role in terms of addressing and serving all segments, maintain their central position to a great extent with this function today. In this context, all of the mosques that work under the authority of the Presidency of Religious Affairs (DIB) in Turkey and on the Turkish-Islamic Union of Religious Affairs (DITIB) in Germany also maintain to provide religious, national, and spiritual-moral education, especially Qur'anic education. The DİB also seeks to increase the services in this field by preparing the "Qur'an Teaching in Mosques" program in 2010 and the Weekend Qur'an Teaching program in mosques in 2019 for male citizens who do not have the opportunity to attend Qur'an courses, as well as hafızlık, need-oriented courses, 4-6 age group, summer courses in Qur'an courses. DITIB mosques are places of worship, and also operate as places where Quran and religious education courses are given at weekends and during school holidays. The Qur'an education in mosques affiliated to DITIB continues throughout entire the year, along with other courses at the school. Students who attend these courses for a few years in Germany are able to read the Quran well. However, in Turkey, students have to repeat the same things the following years due to the fact that they cannot comprehend many of their knowledge and skills about reading the Qur'an with the prayers they learned just in the Summer Qur'an Courses that students attended for a short time like about two months during the summer holidays. This is not surprising because they do not continue to study the Qur'an on weekends after their summer school program. In this way, the situation of missing the first step of Qur'anic education leads to various problems in Qur'anic education in Imam Hatip middle and high schools and in theology/Islamic sciences faculties. We think that the main reason for this problem is that Quranic education requires continuity and repetition. In other words, the students who attend “Summer Qur'an Courses” in our country do not attend Qur'an courses that are organized at the weekends.  Having recognized this negative outcome, DIB officials sought a solution to the problem by preparing a new program in 2019. However, not only the Qur'an course instructors such as Imam Hatips, mu’azzin, and teachers of the Ministry of National Education working in this field but also academics who study in faculties of the theology and Islamic sciences are not aware of this new program even. Also, the students in formal education who are interested in these courses and the parents who will guide them do not have any information about this program and its content. Along with this shortcoming, there are deficiencies not only in the curriculum of the program, and materials but also in the manner of participants who will provide or receive training. Therefore, the Qur'an teaching program will be examined in terms of its nature, methods, and applications, and suggestions will be made based on their comparison by considering the studies carried out in the related field and taking advantage of our previous experience in both institutions, the DIB and DITIB. We aim to contribute to the studies both in the field of Islamic Sciences and in Qur'an education by comparing the “Weekend Qur'an Teaching Program” in mosques, in the case of DIB and DITIB, after an extended study on literature is mentioned. It is concluded that DITIB mosques include social and cultural activities that satisfy the student groups in terms of curriculum and materials. Moreover, as a result of the fact that student-parents, instructors, and social and religious organizations work in harmony, the students have more tendencies to attend Qur'anic and religious knowledge courses at the weekends besides formal education.
Yazar isimleri: ['Abdulhekim AĞIRBAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kocatepe İslami İlimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kiid/issue/73811/1183120
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2683479
