Makale Başlığı: Environmental sensitivity of gifted children: a picture analysis based research
Özet: Picture analyses are a highly valid method used to understand students' emotions. There are many research findings indicating that gifted and talented students are highly sensitive to environmental problems. However, there is a need for more multidimensional and deeper analyses. In this study, picture analyses on environmental problems were conducted in order to understand the students' relationships with the environment and their feelings about these relationships. This research, which was conducted with case study, one of the qualitative research methods, was applied in the city of Malatya, which is at the middle level according to the development index in Turkey. A total of 24 primary school fourth grade students, 12 boys and 12 girls, who are gifted and intelligent, were studied. These students were also receiving support education in the science and arts centres in their region. As a data collection tool, the drawings of gifted students on environmental problems were used. These drawings were analysed by four teachers who are experts in their fields. Semi-structured interview forms were used to support the analyses of these drawings about environmental problems. The interviews were subjected to content analysis. According to the findings of the research, it was determined that there were feelings of desire for a clean and green environment, love and protection for living creatures in the natural environment, deep sadness for a degraded environment, constant discomfort in the face of visual, auditory and sound pollution, anger and anger against the inadequacy of the measures taken against environmental pollution, and high anxiety about the deterioration of the natural environment.
Yazar isimleri: ['Şengül KORKUT']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Gifted Education and Creativity
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jgedc/issue/71264/1047655
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2158205
