Makale Başlığı: THE INVESTIGATION OF THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN ACADEMIC PROCRASTINATION BEHAVIORS AND TIME MANAGEMENT SKILLS OF CLASSROOM TEACHER CANDIDATES
Özet: In the study, it was aimed to determine the academic procrastination behaviors and time management skill levels of classroom education teacher candidates and to determine the relationship between academic procrastination behavior and time management skills. To this aim, relational survey model is used as research model of the study. Stratified sampling is used as sampling model. Seven universities representing each of the seven geographical regions in Turkey were randomly selected. Sample group of the study consists of 665 teacher candidates studying at classroom teaching departments of seven state universities. “Time Management Scale” and Academic Procrastination Scale” were used as data collection tools in the study. Time Management Scale” was developed by Britton and Tesser (1991) and adapted to Turkish by Alay and Koçak (2002). Academic Procrastination Scale” was developed by Çakıcı (2003). In the study, it was determined that the classroom education teacher candidates have a medium level of academic procrastination behavior. Teacher candidates at first grade showed highest level of academic procrastination whereas teacher candidates at second grade showed lowest level of academic procrastination. Analysis of academic achievement levels indicated that the group with the lowest level of academic procrastination had the highest academic achievement level. The study also revealed that teacher candidates studying at classroom teaching departments had medium level of time management skills and there isn't a significant difference between different grade levels. The groups with high level of time management skill had high level of time management skills. Additionally, it was found that increase in academic procrastination caused a decrease in time management skills.
Yazar isimleri: ['Tuğçe YARDIM', 'Gizem ENGİN']
Yayın Yılı: 6 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Trakya Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/trakyasobed/issue/70085/1099730
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2358780
