Makale Başlığı: Computer Games with Stories as an Element of  Alienation
Özet: Developing technology has changed many routines in the life of humans. With the digital revolution in 20th century -although most of the time there is information pollution - the speed of change has gained momentum. Computer and internet play an important role in this rapid change. The concepts of playing games and having fun, which are indispensable elements of human life since childhood, have changed form over time and shifted to the digital en vironment. This form of entertainment on the digital world is individual interaction settings within the new media. These settings in the virtual world, which are also easily accessible, gain traction from young people because they make the player experience feelings like success, power, combat, ambition and passion in the game. Computer games have now become an environment where their content can be manipulated, and a new world can be built according to the player's point of view. In computer games with stories, the players consider themselves as part of the story. It is seen that these kind of games being on demand especially in the world of young people has an effect with more than one factor. One of these factors is alienation. Alienation, which we can define as the feeling of distancing from society, causes a weakening of the ties between humans and the environment or the society they live in. The alienated individual beings to seek different environments to satisfy himself/herself. Computer games are considered to be one of these environments. The tendencies of high school students towards computer games with stories were evaluated in this study, within the context of dimension of alienation created by Melvin Seeman.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Mart 2022
Dergi ismi: Current Perspectives in Social Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/atasobed/issue/69347/1101122
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2364761
