Makale Başlığı: Comparative of Two Scheherazade from Arab Theater
Özet: One Thousand and One Nights is a collection of fairy tales composed of a frame narrative and its surrounding tales. With their translation into Western languages, these tales, which represent Eastern literature in terms of their origin, became recognized in the West and occupied a prominent place in world literature. These tales have influenced and inspired numerous authors from both the East and West. It can be observed that a variety of literary works have directly or indirectly been nourished from this collection. Two famous and prolific Modern Arabic Literature authors, Tawfiq al-Hakim and Ali Ahmed Bakathir, also composed a play inspired by these tales. al-Hakim presented the reader with a fictional account of what occurred after the one thousand and first night in Scheherazade, one of his over seventy fictional theatrical works. Shahriar transformed into a completely different person through Scheherazade's tales in this work. This king, who had experienced all kinds of material pleasures in the past, now pursues knowledge and desires to transcend the limits of space. Bakathir, who contributed significantly to Arabic theater in addition to his poetry and novels, wrote over forty plays. One of these compositions, "Sırru Şehrâzâd", was inspired by the frame story of One Thousand and One Nights. By incorporating a contemporary interpretation into his work, the author transformed the frame story based on the infidelity of women into a new work of fiction. Accordingly, the first wife of Shahriar was portrayed as an innocent woman in the work Sırru Şehrâzâd, and the plot was based around this characterization. In this study, general information on the original One Thousand and One Nights was presented first, followed by a literary analysis of the aforementioned theater works by al-Hakim and Bakathir, and a comparison of the character of Scheherazade in the works of both authors.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammet Bilal TOLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Bilimname
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bilimname/issue/73035/1124598
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2460804
