Makale Başlığı: Green supplier selection with integrated multi-criteria decision making techniques
Özet: The concept of Green Supply Chain Management (GSCM), whose importance has increased in recent years, is considered as a supply chain that prioritizes environmental impacts in all its activities. Nowadays, businesses are considered not only in terms of their economic performance, but also in terms of their environmental performance which makes GSCM important. However, GSCM cannot be conducted without the participation of the suppliers. Due to this fact, correct determination of their suppliers has vital importance in developing a better GSCM performance. While there is a plenty of research in many sectors in GSCM literature, the research in the paint subfield of the chemical sector, which has a great environmental impact, is limited. It is seen that Multi-Criteria Decision Making (MCDM) techniques are frequently used in supplier selection studies, however, there are few studies where the results of different approaches are compared and integrated. In this research, green supplier selection is conducted using different MCDM technics, and the results are compared and combined. In the study, green supplier selection was carried out in the paint sub-branch of the chemical industry with the MOORA-Ratio Method, MOORA-Reference Point Approach, GRA and COPRAS methods, each of which is integrated with the ANP Then, the COPELAND method was used to obtain a general ranking. This research contributes to the literature by proposing a unique model in terms of the applied sector and integrating MCDM method results. The model proposed in this study can help the decision makers in order to build a green supplier selection model.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yasin MERCAN', 'Onur ÇETİN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Trakya Üniversitesi İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Fakültesi E-Dergi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/trakyaiibf/issue/70165/1102019
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2368413
