Makale Başlığı: The Effectiveness Of Father Mediated Video Modeling Instruction On Children With Autism On Imitating Objective Actions
Özet: The Effectiveness Of Father Mediated Video Modeling Instruction On Children With Autism On Imitating Objective ActionsIn this study, the effectiveness of father-mediated video modeling instruction on children with autism imitating objective actions was investigated. In addition, it was aimed to examine the permanence levels of children with autism after their education was completed and to determine their social validity levels on fathers. The research design is one-subject experimental design, “Multiple probe pattern between subjects”. The dependent variable of the research is the imitation levels of the subjects and the independent variable is the teaching of being a model with father-mediated video. In the study, attention was paid to the fact that the selected subjects showed similar characteristics and had close prerequisite skills. Children with autism who were educated in an official institution in Samsun participated in the research. The study group of the study consisted of three children with autism, two girls and one boy, between 40-43 months. In the research, ten imitation skills, which include objective actions that children frequently encounter and use in daily life, were included. An adult model was used as a model in the videos in order to imitate these determined objective actions. These adults were selected as the fathers of three children with autism included in the study. In order to determine the effect of video modeling instruction on imitation skills, data for baseline, probe and follow-up phases were obtained. The findings obtained from the study showed that father-mediated video modeling teaching was effective in two children with autism on the level of imitation of objective actions in children with autism.  It was determined that the other child’s level of imitation was higher than the starting level. It was determined that the children maintained their imitation level at the end of the instruction in the follow-up phases performed in the first, second and fourth weeks after the teaching of father-mediated video modeling. The data related to the reliability obtained from the research were found to be high enough to meet the specified criteria. Considering the social validity data obtained from the fathers through interviews, it was seen that the social validity level of the research on fathers was high.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hacer DİNER EVREN', 'Alpaslan KARABULUT']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Ondokuz Mayıs Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/omuefd/issue/70809/1007743
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2019214
