Makale Başlığı: The Current Dimension of the Concept of Specialization in Translation in the Globalization Process: New Breakthroughs Leading to Academy-Market Cooperation: The Case of ISKUR
Özet: In the twenty-first century, when globalization has reached enormous dimensions, the way the translation activity is handled and the steps expected of translators have also begun to change. As known, our age is the age of technology. Texts are now written in a short period and there is a need for instant translation. A text that was on the agenda two days ago might become out of date today due to its fast consumption and instant spread on social media. While translators could earn their living through specialization in one or two text types in the era, when the Internet was not familiar, it may now be necessary to be specialized in many more areas. Particularly news sites, companies, and internet shopping pages need translation activity to serve their contents or products for the international environment. Besides, most of the printed texts have now been transferred to the Internet. From now on, users can choose the part of the content they need to read within the framework of the advantages of the concept of digital literacy by “scrolling down.” This means producing different content and text types suitable for new needs. In such environments, translators have to improve themselves in many areas. Nevertheless, the lecturers teaching in the Translation and Interpreting departments could quickly transfer courses about these specialized areas to the students via specializing in only one or two texts 10-15 years ago because the areas of specialization in translation needed in the translation market were then limited in number. At those times when the number of elective courses was few, process management was more straightforward in this sense. However, as a result of an increasing number of different contents, lecturers have now to gain experience in different text types to move the market to academia. Thus, prospective students can be shown what the market expects of them after their graduation. From now on, localization, machine translation, post-editing, translations of medical devices, audio-visual translation, sign language interpreting, etc., should be practiced in more detail rather than giving translation courses at the introductory level. New areas of specialization seem to have emerged. Then, in the beginning, it may not be possible for lecturers to become experts in these courses in a very short time. In this sense, experienced translators in the translation market sometimes serve as the stakeholders who contribute to the academic-market interaction by offering part-time lectures within the translation and interpreting departments. However, such experts may not give lectures for reasons such as the factor of distance and the lack of budget of the university in translation and interpreting departments. Though the university can meet the cost of a part-time lecturer outside the university, alternatives can be remarkable for the specialization process. In this study, it has been discussed whether prospective translators can gain expertise within the framework of the conditions at their hands by designing training courses on the focus of ISKUR to present an idea to the translation and interpreting departments of universities and thus provide further specialization in translation. It is thought that these courses can be given remotely, with less budget, by assigning an external person. Still, this discussion-based paper is believed to help students thanks to educational cooperation with institutions such as ISKUR. In this regard, at the end of the study, a training course has been designed in the case of Bartin City.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1188808
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2707306
