Makale Başlığı: ARMISTICE PERIOD AND THE KURDS
Özet: In 1908, as a result of the efforts of the Committee of Union and Progress, II. Constitution was declared. Immediately after the announcement, an atmosphere of relative freedom began to prevail. However, with the full power of the Committee of Union and Progress in 1913, all opposition centers within the Ottoman borders were suppressed. This pressure  process continued until the end of the First World War. With the Armistice of Mondros signed after the war, both the Union and Progress Power and the Ottoman Empire were de facto ending. The Armistice period was characterized as a period of uncertainty until a permanent peace treaty was signed with the consent of the parties. In this process, it was unclear what the fate of the war-lost Ottoman Empire would be. During this period, other minorities, including the essential elements of the Ottoman Empire, such as Turks and Kurds, were also making various attempts with the Entente States regarding their status. These attempt were guided by the Wilson principles. In this uncertain environment of the Armistice, the negotiations with the Allied Powers were primarily aimed at preventing the Armenian threat in the East and the Greek threat in the West. Period, association, club, publications, etc. These efforts carried out within the framework of formations also make it possible to analyze the nationalism of that period. The aim of this study is to analyze Turkish and Kurdish nationalism within the framework of the uncertainty of the terms of the Armistice, based on the literature review method. In addition, it is to make determinations about the similarities and differences of nationalisms in this period.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Veysel KARATAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Anadolu Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ulasbid/issue/70080/1137314
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2513241
