Makale Başlığı: Determınatıon of Powder Levels In Cement Productıon Sector and Investıgatıon of Its Effects on Employees
Özet: Introduction: In this study, the dust levels exposed by the personnel working in different units in the cement production sector were evaluated according to national and international regulations. In addition, the effects of dust exposure on employee health were determined as a result of workplace doctor examinations and examinations. Materials and Methods: In this study, personal respirable and total dust concentration measurements were made in a cement factory. Personal respirable dust concentrations in 15 different people working in various units in the enterprise and total dust concentrations in 31 different environments at the factory site were made in accordance with the Respirable/Total Dust Measurement Method standard. Results: It was determined that two of the 15 employees whose personal inhalable dust concentration was measured were above the legal regulatory limit value, three employees were above the UK Occupational Health and Safety Organization limit value, and four employees were above the American National Occupational Hygienists Conference limit value. It has been determined that the total dust concentration in the environment is mostly in the mill units. The maximum personal respirable dust concentration is determined by the personnel working in the crusher unit, this value is above the legal legislation. As a result of PA chest radiographs of 15 employees whose personal respiratory dust concentrations were measured, one employee working in the dusty environment was reported as Category 1, and all other employees as Category 0. Conclusion: The exposure has increased due to the fact that dust accumulated in units such as raw mills and cement mills are not removed from the environment. In order to prevent or reduce dusting in the crushing units, the water should be pulverized to make the material more moisture and the environment should be cleaned regularly in the mill units. The work unit of a Category 1 employee has been changed to work in another unit below 2 mg / m3 of the facility and dust exposure has been minimized. Medical examinations of the workers in the crushing and milling units should be more frequently performed by the workplace doctor and their health status should be monitored.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zehra YILDIZ']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Sağlık Akademisi Kastamonu
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sak/issue/60459/872489
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1548830
