Makale Başlığı: Seasonal Workers in Hazelnut Agriculture: The Case of Giresun
Özet: The discussion of transformation in agriculture, which emerged in the field of social sciences in the 1970s, focuses on the development direction of capitalism in agriculture and how it will affect social and economic relations in rural areas. In the said period, it was seen that the debates on transformation in agriculture in Turkey flared up and the studies carried out in this direction increased. When it comes to the 1980s, the impact of neoliberal policies in Turkey's agriculture is felt and it is seen that the transformation process in agriculture has begun. However, there has been a decrease in field studies on this transformation in agriculture. However, this ongoing process brings about serious changes in the employment and production structures in the agricultural sector. Therefore, it is possible to understand and follow these developments in Turkish agriculture only by increasing the field studies in a qualified way. Seasonal agricultural work is one of the working forms that come to the fore in agricultural employment with the said transformation.Seasonal agricultural work, which is the labor-intensive form of work in the agricultural sector, is a very challenging form of employment in terms of both working conditions and living conditions. Workers who work with both long working hours and lack of security are among the disadvantaged groups of the society in terms of social and economic aspects. For this reason, field studies are very important for the determination and improvement of working and living conditions. In this study, it is aimed to examine the working and living conditions of seasonal workers working in the hazelnut harvest in Bulancak district of Giresun province. With the study carried out in 2017, it was tried to draw a general image covering the social and economic conditions of the workers working in the hazelnut harvest in Bulancak district. Thus, it is aimed to make visible the neglected labor of seasonal workers working in the hazelnut harvest.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gizem ŞİMŞEK']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Ünye İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/uiibfd/issue/73110/1174372
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2646894
