Makale Başlığı: GLASS CEILING IN THE BANKING SECTOR: CENTRAL DISTRICT OF AYDIN PROVINCE AND NAZİLLİ DISTRICT SAMPLES
Özet: Glass ceiling is expressed as the inability of individuals who can make a serious contribution to the institutions with their knowledge and skills in enterprises or institutions, not reaching the managerial position due to invisible obstacles. It will be easier for women to break the glass ceiling barrier if their perceptions of the concept are clearly defined.In this con-text, the main purpose of this study is to reveal how the existence of glass ceiling barriers in the banking sector is perceived by women. For this purpose, a questionnaire study was conducted to female employees in the banking sector. As a result of the data, 144 women in total work in banks operating in Aydın central district and Nazilli district. A questionnaire was applied to 99 women working in these institutions. The reliability of the questionnaire was tested with Cronbach's Alpha analysis. In order to determine whether the data obtained from the survey study are normally distributed, the Kolmogrov Smirnov test was performed and it was decided that the data showed normal distribution. The demo-graphic characteristics of the respondents were presented with frequency distribution tables. In addition, the glass ceiling barriers scale frequency and percentage values were calculated. The relationship between the glass ceiling barrier and demographic factors was tested with one-way variance (Anova). As the result, the women participating in the survey, are confident in their working life, believe that they are as competent as men but have the view that men are provided with more opportunities for promotion than women. Instead of waiting for the glass ceiling to break on its own, women should realize that this is only possible if they take action.
Yazar isimleri: ['Abdullah ÖZDEMİR', 'Seda ÖZNUR']
Yayın Yılı: 13 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Hak İş Uluslararası Emek ve Toplum Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/hakisderg/issue/73809/1173253
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2642148
