Makale Başlığı: Ecologic Footprint Makes History: Earth Overshoot Day
Özet: Humanity has been imprisoned in an extremely fast production and consumption cycle, especially with the industrial revolution. Although the technological development and production increases that proved Thomas R. Malthus wrong about at least the date of the possible doomsday, have the capacity to feed the increasing world population, today humanity needs an extra planet with the increases in demand. Of course, such a request has not been in a position to come true, at least for now. The gap between supply and demand is getting wider, thus deepening resource access problems.Humanity, which puts the emphasis on sustainability on development/growth with the goal of sustainable development, puts more pressure on the natural resources of the planet today than in any age. The natural resource demand created by humanity are calculated within the framework of headings such as nutrition needs, raw material supply and assimilation of carbon dioxide gas. The concept of Ecological Footprint is reached with this calculation. Ecological Footprint presents and defines the pressure of humanity on the planet as a measurable, numerical value. It serves the purpose of developing an ecological definition of economy.This study focuses on the Ecological Footprint and Earth Overshoot Day concepts for humanity at a historical turning point. It makes a general evaluation of the Ecological Footprint and World Overshoot Day as current and important concepts. While emphasizing the idea that expressing the problem with measurable and numerical values strengthens the understanding of the global threat, it draws attention to the role that the market mechanism will assume in the future.
Yazar isimleri: ['Murat DEMİREL']
Yayın Yılı: 16 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Cumhuriyet Üniversitesi İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://esjournal.cumhuriyet.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/71333/1135975
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2507974
