Makale Başlığı: Direct Procurement and "Prohibition of Seperate Works into Parties" within Public Procurement Law in The Light of Judicial and Administrative Decisions
Özet: The administrations seem to provide various goods; services or construction works from time to time due to the public services they perform. These administrations have to fulfill various procedures to meet these specified needs. In this context, the administrations within the scope of the Public Procurement Law No. 4734 are required to purchase goods or services with regard to their needs by applying the tendering procedures specified in this law. On the other hand, the administrations may also adopt a different procurement method in some cases, which is stipulated in the Public Procurement Law No. 4734 and called direct procurement, without fulfilling the tender procedures while meeting their needs. In this way, the administrations can meet their needs more quickly with a less bureaucratic sequence of transactions without fulfilling necessary announcements, guarantees, tender commissions, etc. required for the tender procedure. Although the direct procurement agency can fulfill the needs of the administration rapidly within itself only if some specific pre-existing conditions exist, it may be seen in some applications which are lack conditions specified by the legislation. At this point, the administrations may separate the works into parties to leave the amount below the limiting value specified for direct supply with the aim of applying the method of direct procurement rather than the tender procedure. This situation named “prohibition of separate the works into Parties” is a contradiction to the legislation as it is banned both by the regulations set out in the Law and Communique.First of all the research on direct procurement which is expressed as a procurement method apart from tender procedures, then reveals the "dividing works into parts" prohibited by legislative regulations is evaluated according to judicial decisions and presents what are the administrative, financial, and penal responsibilities of public officials who act within the scope of the ban are the aims of this study. In this study, we identify various activities from judicial and administrative decisions that create “dividing into parts” and most of all against the ban in an attempt to apply direct procurement.
Yazar isimleri: ['Erdem ATEŞAĞAOĞLU', 'Ali SAKLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Public Finance
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijpf/issue/70677/1022621
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2077594
