Makale Başlığı: Comparison of enrofloxacin and tulatromycin treatments in sheep with Pasteuralla multicida pneumonia
Özet: In this study, it was aimed to compare the treatments of enrofloxacin and tulatromycin in sheep with pneumonia caused by Pasteuralla multicida. A total of 45 female Tuj sheep between the ages of 2-6 were used in the study. Group 1 enrofloxacin administered 15 sheep, group 2 tulatromycin administered 15 sheep, and 15 healthy sheep of the same age group and characteristics formed the control group. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples were obtained from sheep with clinical signs (cough, purulent, serous, mucopurulent nasal discharge) of respiratory system disease. After the microbiological examination of the samples taken, those positive for Pasteuralla multicida were included in the study. Blood samples (10 mL) from the Vena jugularis were collected in serum tubes with K2EDTA and gel from the sick animals before and after the treatment as well as once from the control group. In our study, rectal temperature, respirations per minute and pulse rates before treatment were found to be statistically significantly higher in patient groups compared to the control group (P<0.001). Total leukocyte count was found to be higher in the patient groups before treatment compared to the control group (P=0.010). Among the biochemical parameters, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, urea and creatine kinase levels were found to be statistically significantly higher in the patient groups compared to the control group before treatment (P<0.05). Clinical improvement was observed from the 3th day in group 2 and from the 5th day in group 1. As a result, administration of a single dose of tulatromycin resulted in earlier clinical improvement than administration of enrofloxacin for one week. At the same time, it was concluded that tulatromycin is more beneficial and practical in terms of a single application.
Yazar isimleri: ['Enes AKYÜZ', 'Ekin Emre ERKILIÇ', 'Mustafa Reha COŞKUN', 'Oğuz MERHAN', 'Umut BATI', 'Mert SEZER', 'Emre BAHÇİVAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Advances in VetBio Science and Techniques
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/vetbio/issue/71840/1124136
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2458920
