Makale Başlığı: The Origins of The Miniatures on The Theme of the Prophet Muhammad in The Jami‘ al-Tawarikh Manuscripts in Byzantine Painting
Özet: Câmiu't-Tevârîh, which was prepared under the supervision of the vizier Reşîdüddîn Fazlullah-ı Hemedânî, by the order of the Ilkhanid Ruler Gazan Khan, is the oldest known, relatively reliable and impartial work in the history of the world. The manuscript, of which four copies exist today, two in Arabic and two in Persian, was prepared and illustrated in the first years of the 14th century. In the Arabic copies of the Edinburgh University Library (Or. Ms. 20) and the Khalili Collection (MSS 727), which are the subject of the study, there are various miniatures on the life of the Prophet Muhammad. The aim of the study is to reveal the historical and artistic features of the miniatures on the subject of “The Birth of the Prophet Muhammad”, “Declaration of Prophethood/The First Revelation”, “The Siege of Beni Nadir Tribe” and to determine the origins of these miniatures in Christian/Byzantine art. First of all, the scenes in question will be defined, and then, in the light of tafsir, hadith and historical sources, it will be tried to determine the background that allows the formation of the scenes according to the iconographic and iconological analysis method. Finally, iconographic and stylistic comparisons will be made with similar examples in Christian/Byzantine art (The birth of Virgin Mary and Christ, The Annunciation, Entry to Jerusalem). It is clear that the rich accumulation of Christian/Byzantine art, based on the deep iconographic infrastructure of the Canonical and Apocrypha Gospels, influenced the Islamic depiction arts in the fields of composition and figure. The Islamic artist has taken his deficiencies in the field of iconographic painting, which he is still new to, from the religions and cultures that have knowledge in this field and has interpreted it in accordance with his own style. Our study aims to reveal the depth and dimensions of the interaction in question through three sample pictures.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa ÇETİNASLAN', 'Ali Can ÖZÇELİK']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Selçuklu Medeniyeti Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sema/issue/66411/1040013
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2145939
