Makale Başlığı: Seminal Vesicle Cyst with or without Unilateral Renal Agenesis: Diagnosis and Treatment Options
Özet: Objective: The aim of this study is to report our experience on the management of seminal vesicle cyst which is an exceedingly rare acquired or congenital pathology. Materials and Methods: A retrospective chart review was conducted on seven patients diagnosed with seminal vesicle cyst between March 2011 to March 2020. Patients’ complaints, fertility, physical signs, diagnostic tests or intervention and the obtained findings, surgical intervention, duration of follow-up period, complications, recurrence and histologic examination of the cysts wall were evaluated in patients included.Results: Seven male patients, mean aged 36.29±13.45, IPSS 13.57±4.89, Qmax:21.77±3.42ml/s with seminal vesicle cysts were identified. The patients’ complaints included lower abdominal pain in one patient with giant seminal vesicle cyst and perineal pain, storage lower urinary tract symptoms in six patient. Five patients were fertile and spermiogram was within normal ranges, two patients were infertile. Six patients have ipsilateral renal agenesia. One asymptomatic patient and three patients with storage lower urinary tract sympmtoms followed without intervention. Two infertile patients were operated with transurethral resection. Seminal vesicle cyst >12 cm are evaluated as giant cysts and operated with open excision. Neither complications nor recurrences were observed. Histopathologic examination of the samples were reported to be compatible with seminal vesicle cyst. The median follow–up period was 96 months. Conclusion: The open surgical approach might be considered the definitive form of treatment for giant cysts. Although small asymptomatic seminal vesical cyst can be followed without intervention, the symptomatic cyst protruding to bladder can be managed by transurethral route.
Yazar isimleri: ['Anıl ERDİK', 'Yavuz Tarık ATİK', 'Deniz GÜL', 'Hacı İbrahim ÇİMEN', 'Osman KÖSE']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Sakarya Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/smj/issue/72629/1104876
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2379812
