Makale Başlığı: CURRENT DEVELOPMENTS REGARDING NON BIS IN IDEM PRINCIPLE IN TAX CRIMINAL LAW: CONSTITUTIONAL COURT DECISION NO. 2019/4E. 2021/78K. AND AMENDMENTS MADE IN ARTICLE 359 OF TAX PROCEDURE ACT BY THE ACT NUMBER 7394
Özet: Whereas the principle of non bis in idem, which is envisaged in Article 4 of Protocol No. 7 of the Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) and considered indispensable in the constitutional framework of the right to a fair trial and the rule of law, is regulated in the basic laws pertaining to the Turkish criminal law, it is not included in the provisions of the Tax Procedure Law (TPL) No. 213 on misdemeanors and crimes. This situation causes the person to be subject to both a monetary fine due to the administrative process and imprisonment resulting from the criminal trial for the same act. With its recent decision, the Constitutional Court annulled the rule that decisions made within the framework of administrative and judicial processes are not binding on each other. Subsequently, with the Law No. 7394, regulations that may affect the application of the non bis in idem principle was added to Article 359 of the TPL. In this study, the said provisions added to Article 359 of the TPL with the Law No. 7394 and the decision of the Constitutional Court will be examined. However, first, the definition and elements of the non bis in idem principle will be mentioned, and article 4 of Protocol No. 7 of the ECHR and national provisions regarding this principle will be scrutinized. Then, the case-law of European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) relating to the principle of non bis in idem in tax criminal law, particularly Glantz v. Finland and A and B v. Norway decisions will be scrutinized. Afterwards, the relevant TPL provisions will be interpreted in terms of the principle of non bis in idem.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet Emrah GEÇER']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İstanbul Medeniyet Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/imhfd/issue/72794/1182031
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2679229
