Makale Başlığı: A FIELD RESEARCH ON TOURISTIC BRAND CITIES
Özet: The main purpose of this research is to determine the role of tourism types on touristic city branding. Within the scope of this research, touristic cities belonging to 17 different types of tourism were selected to be examined and data were collected from consumers by survey method. The same questionnaire was applied to 17 different cities selected. The questionnaire was formed in three parts. In the creation of the first part of the questionnaire, the scale applied by Davras (2019) in the study "Consumer Based Destination Brand Equity Modeling: Isparta Destination Example" was used. In the second part of the questionnaire, the Questionnaire of the Current Status of Touristic Resources and Activities, which was created by Kocaman (2012) with the Delphi method, was used. In the last part of the questionnaire, 4 questions were determined to determine the demographic characteristics of the participants (Gender, Age, Marital Status and Employment Status). Demographic information obtained within the scope of this study was used only to give general information about the participants. The survey was carried out in the province of Istanbul and for each city, a survey was conducted with 150 people who had a holiday in that city before. The results showed that tourism brand value differs according to tourism types. The results of the regression analyses carried out to reveal the effects of the sub-dimensions of the current state of touristic resources and activities on the sub-dimensions of destination brand value showed that the sub-dimensions of "attractions in the destination" and "tourism businesses in the destination" have a positive and statistically significant effect on all sub-dimensions of the destination brand value scale. In addition, other commercial enterprises in the destination have positive and statistically significant brand awareness; It has been concluded that local governments in the destination have a positive and statistically significant effect on destination satisfaction.
Yazar isimleri: ['İlay DEMİRER', 'Serkan AKGÜN']
Yayın Yılı: 6 Nisan 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Akademik Yönetim Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yonbil/issue/69337/1094900
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2338608
