Makale Başlığı: The role of building trust in crisis communication: A research on the explanations of the Ministry of Health during the Covid-19 pandemic process
Özet: The existence of communication processes is closely related to human socialization. Communication processes differ depending on society and geography. The effects of the period also affect the communication processes. It is very important to follow a communication strategy that will guide the society in the right way, ensure that they comply with the measures taken, and prevent panic or reduce the negative effects of the panic that occurs while performing the communication management of health crises, and this is only possible by building trust. From this point of view, in this study, it was aimed to examine the communication strategy of the Minister of Health and the Ministry in the context of the element of trust in the Covid-19 pandemic process. In this context, people with different demographic characteristics were interviewed using the semi-structured interview form, which is one of the qualitative research methods, and the data obtained from the interviews were interpreted. As a result of the research, it was determined that the information provided by the Ministry of Health's website during the pandemic process was not sufficient, convincing and explanatory by the participants. Although the use of his personal Twitter account by the Minister of Health while making his statements seemed to be beneficial in terms of communication efficiency, the participants stated that this situation weakened the institutional identity of the Ministry of Health. When evaluated in terms of crisis communication strategy, it was seen that the explanations made could not be conveyed to the society in a sufficiently convincing, explanatory and integrated manner. At this point, although different communication channels were used, it was evaluated that a more successful and coordinated strategy should be implemented and more effective and persuasive communication messages should be preferred in this process.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nuran IRMAK', 'Özlem DUĞAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: NOSYON: Uluslararası Toplum ve Kültür Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/nosyon/issue/71049/1059972
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2200592
