Makale Başlığı: A META-ANALYSIS BASED RESEARCH ON WORKPLACE MOBBING BEHAVIOR
Özet: Mobbing in the workplace affects all actors in the process negatively due to individual, organizational and social problems. Although this effect varies for each case, prevention of each case has great importance for all parties. Due to the effects caused by its results, its importance in the field of management organization is at a level that cannot be ignored in terms of both the practitioners and academy. For this reason, the workplace mobbing variable has been the subject of many academic studies after its definition in the 1970s. Based on this, within the scope of this study, it is aimed to examine in depth the studies on the mobbing variable in the management organization literature and to make common conclusions. In line with the purpose of the research, firstly, the variables whose relationship with mobbing has been studied the most were determined as "intention to leave, job satisfaction, burnout and organizational commitment". After this step, four separate meta-analysis studies were carried out on the relationship between variables with the data set created within the scope of the meta-analysis inclusion criteria. In line with the evaluation of the findings of the meta-analysis study, it was concluded that there was a moderate relationship between the mobbing variable and the variables of intention to leave, job satisfaction, burnout and organizational commitment according to the Cohen effect size classification criteria. The role of regulatory variables in these relationships, which were also determined with the subgroup analysis, was revealed. It is thought that the research has a unique value in terms of examining all the studies on the mobbing variable without any constraints on years and geography and by using the method meta-analysis new in the field.
Yazar isimleri: ['Esin Bengü CERAN', 'İbrahim PINAR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Hitit Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/hititsbd/issue/70753/1115949
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2424926
