Makale Başlığı: TOOLS USED IN PUBLIC DIPLOMACY AND PUBLIC RELATIONS EVALUATIONS OF ACADEMICS WORKING IN THE FIELD OF PUBLIC DIPLOMACY
Özet: Communication studies that countries try to realize with people of other countries are called public diplomacy. In addition to face-to-face communication, these activities are now supported by extensive and professional communication efforts. In environments where there are communication efforts, public relations studies are also an area needed in terms of establishing correct, effective, and continuous communication with the target audience. Within the framework of the study, similar points between public diplomacy and public relations are mentioned through literature research, and the tools used in public diplomacy and public relations studies are explained. In the method part, data were collected by using the interview method with 6 open-ended question forms. Academicians who have studied on public diplomacy were included in the research. Participants were selected by random sampling method. Ethics committee approval was obtained for the study. It has been concluded that the participants who have studies on public diplomacy should benefit from public relations studies in general in public diplomacy studies, and public diplomacy should not be separated from public relations because it is a communication effort established with target audiences. In this context, it was emphasized that the institutions established for the purpose of public diplomacy should take a more active role, the fact of face-to-face communication maintains its importance compared to cultural characteristics, and the messages to be conveyed through communication tools should be used more professionally.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hasan ALTİNCİK', 'Pınar GÜNER KOÇAK']
Yayın Yılı: 24 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Van Yüzüncü Yıl Üniversitesi İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/vanyyuiibfd/issue/71321/1128851
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2478564
