Makale Başlığı: Theology in the University: an Evaluation in terms of Society, Politic and Science Theory
Özet: The university is a scientific space where truth is investigated and learned. The purpose and task of the university is considered to investigate, truth for the sake of truth without any limitation. This mission is assigned to academics and students. Autonomy and freedom in seeking and learning the truth are the main qualities of the university. The state and society recognize, accept and support the university with this quality. The existence of university and its units is affiliated with this acceptance and support. Another feature of the university is universality and holisticity. The relevant feature involves training intellectuals who can sight broadly and wholeheartedly at the search for the truth. That statue voice criticism about constrictions brought about by the specializations in the field of science vitiates the concept of the university in terms of breadth, integrity and intellectuality. When the theology is mentioned in the university, the first ones that come to mind are the general characteristics of the university and whether theology is a field of science, and therefore its belonging to the university is questioned. In this context, such a question arises: Is theology an academic field of science where truth is sought for truth, where academics and students research and learn truth autonomously and freely, and which are accepted and supported by society, the state and the scientific community? This paper will focus on the social-political and theoretical scientific basis of the place of theology as a scientific field in the university. For this purpose, the relevant literature are reviewed and applied the subject to text analysis. The data obtained are evaluated in the context of the Faculty of Theology at the Turkish university. As a result, it is evaluated that the inclusion of theology in the University as a field of science can be based on science-theory and social-political aspects.
Yazar isimleri: ['Cemal TOSUN']
Yayın Yılı: 22 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye Din Eğitimi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tudear/issue/70435/1091555
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2325034
