Makale Başlığı: Global Trends in Trachoma
Özet: The study's goal is to examine the scientific outputs on Trachoma that have been published globally. A descriptive bibliometric analysis study was carried out. The Web of Science Core Collection was used as a bibliographic database and VOSviewer software version 1.6.18 for Windows was used to create the required network visualization. The search was conducted by using the keywords "trachoma" or "Chlamydia trachomatis" in the title. The most extensive timeframe was used, which included the years 1970 through 2021. Other publication genres such as case reports, editorials, and letters were eliminated from the search since they were not peer-reviewed papers. The overall citation counts of each trachoma-related publication published was the study's primary outcome. The topic of the publications, the publishing journal, and the year published, the language, the place of origin, the names of the first authors, the Hirsch (H) indexes, and the number of citations analyzed were all secondary outcomes. A total of 6556 articles were detected. The number of articles has never dropped under 100 articles per year since 1985. The highest number of articles was published in 2021 (n=233). 6251 (95.348%) of the articles were published in Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI-Expanded) journals. The University of California System was the leading affiliation on trachoma research. The USA (n=2585), England (n=910), and Canada (n=336) were the countries with the higher number of publications. The articles from the USA had the highest H indexes and the articles from England had a higher number of average citations per item. Studies on trachoma are increasing worldwide. The USA and England are the leading countries in scientific production in this regard. The USA and England are the leading countries in scientific production on this topic.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa YILMAZ', 'Emine Kübra DİNDAR DEMİRAY']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Black Sea Journal of Health Science
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bshealthscience/issue/68048/1141391
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2528817
