Makale Başlığı: The Concept of Tafakkur (Reflection) and an Evaluation on Related Narrations
Özet: Tafakkur (reflection), which may be defined as an effort for the comprehension of being, is frequently mentioned in the Holy Quran in the context of various concepts. This concept is also seen in some accounts attributed to the Prophet (PBUH). In particular, the account showing that He recited some verses in Surah Al ‘Imran after looking up to the sky and reflecting one night should be mentioned. The concept of tafakkur has also been found in the words of the companions and later scholars. In the main sources of the religion of Islam, tafakkur is defined as the most essential way of knowing Allah and being a good subject to Him. Today, on the other hand, people are deprived of a qualified thought activity regarding the universe, life, and death with the effect of the new order imposed upon them by modernity. A lifestyle that is established upon indulgences appears to be the most significant goal of people. This situation, which results in the neglect of spiritual needs, has consequently brought about individual, social, and spiritual problems. In our opinion, the lack of this effort in question does not differ significantly between persons who identify as religious and show efforts for living a pious life and those who adopt a secular worldview and lifestyle. Therefore, one may argue that lacking tafakkur is a universal problem for the modern person. Quran-based studies have been conducted on this important topic. However, to the best of our knowledge, no study has investigated the concept of tafakkur in the context of Islamic accounts or narratives. In this study, the concept is examined within the framework of some words attributed to the Prophet and the words of scholars of later generations. In addition to the messages of these narratives intended for the faithful, their sources and attributions are also in the scope of the study. Such that, some words on the issue do not originate from the Prophet, despite beliefs that they do. While the concept of tafakkur naturally invokes the concepts of philosophical thought or scriptural thought, we have not set a goal in the context of these areas in our study.
Yazar isimleri: ['Serkan ÇELİKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Nisar
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/nisar/issue/73556/1189985
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2712041
