Makale Başlığı: The Phenomenon of Ellipsis in the Sample of Surah Ahzâb
Özet: The Arabic language and its rhetoric are of great importance in terms of being given a miracle like a language worthy of one's honor, which justifies man's dealings with Allah, and that the language of the Qur'an is Arabic. According to the scholars of ulûmü'l-Qur'an and linguistics, the eloquence, semantic dimension, wisdom, and special style of the language of the Qur'an, which is the transformation of revelation into language, such as ijaz; It manifests itself in the harmony of words and meaning, the harmony of voice and verse in the flute, the eloquence it has, the superiority of its literary method and the absence of its poet. Arabic language and rhetoric are at the forefront of the sciences that need to be understood in order to read and conquer the Qur'an based on oneness, to meditate, to be aware of its wisdom and mystery. The subject of ijaz, which is one of the ways to understand the mystery and wisdom in the language of the Qur'an, is also a rhetorical subject. The ijaz in the Qur'an is related to its rhetoric, statement and literary aspect rather than its grammar. The miracle of the Qur'an, which is full of ijaz, and its unique, unique and incredible style, has a great contribution to it, both in the form of hesitation and in the form of stifling. Therefore, one of the mysterious features of the Qur'an is the subject of ijaz-i hazif, which we have discussed in our article. As in every sura, verse, sentence, word and even every letter of the Qur'an, there are elements of ijaz-i hazif, which contain many aphorisms and mysteries in this sense, as well. Here, in this article, the subject of ijaz-ı hazif in the Qur'an, its effects and contributions to the understanding, its reflections in meaning are explained and explained in the accompaniment of the verses in the chapter of Ahzab. With this article, in which Ijaz-ı hazif, which reflects the importance of semantic science in creating the richness of meaning, is the subject, read; Being able to realize that wisdom and knowledge of mystery in our supreme book, the Qur'an, is through knowledge of meaning, and that it is necessary to apply to philology and tafsir and translation studies prepared in terms of philology and ulûmü'l-Qur'an instead of ale'l-ade translation and tafsir studies. it is hoped. It is thought that this study will contribute to the Qur'an translation and tafsir studies. It will also help the Qur'an to be interpreted more objectively in terms of interpretation, and thus to better understand it. Because the types of ijaz are made for a purpose, they offer the opportunity to look at them from a broad perspective in terms of meaning and interpretation. In general, studies carried out without considering semantic subtleties such as ijaz and making them effective and competent bring along some problems. At the beginning of the most important and vital of these problems is not to respect them by removing the wisdom in divine speech, the divine mysteries, eloquence, kindness and richness of meaning. One of the aims of this study is to put forth the effect and contribution of the examples of ijaz-ı hazif in the Ahzâb sura in a semantic dimension in order to eliminate the above problems. In addition, it is to show that one of the most consistent ways to reach the linguistic and literary aspect of the Qur'an and to understand the verses correctly is to have knowledge of the semantic science part. Our work consists of two parts. In the first part; The phenomenon of hasif, which is frequently encountered in Arabic, will be discussed. In this section, information will be given about the concept, importance, reasons, conditions, eloquent purposes and types of hedonism. In the second part, information will be given about the martyrdom of the varieties of ijaz-ı hazif, which is the main subject of the article, as determined in the chapter of Ahzâb. Ijaz-ı hazif will be divided according to the type of pleasure, and the relevant part of the verse will be taken and it will be tried to be explained by emphasizing where and how the pleasure occurs, what the reserved element is, and the effect and reflection of this pleasure on the meaning. In this study, in which the phenomenon of hehif, which linguists insist on, is discussed, it will be tried to show the reader that the phenomenon of hazif is a requirement of ijaz and that the phenomenon of hehif is very common in the Qur'an and has a great importance in its ijaz, with the examples brought as martyrdom and the analysis made.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nihat YALÇIN', 'Uğur GÜLBİL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Amasya İlahiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/amailad/issue/70416/1053631
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2175770
