Makale Başlığı: INVESTIGATING PRE-SERVICE SCIENCE TEACHERS’ PERCEPTIONS ABOUT HEALTHY NUTRITİON HABITS
Özet: The study aims to determine the perceptions of pre-service science teachers about nutrition habits, the factors affecting the acquisition of healthy nutrition habits, and how healthy nutrition habits are formed individually. Within the scope of the study, the researchers posed open-ended questions to pre-service science teachers. They evaluated how the participants' nutrition habits were shaped, how they considered their eating habits, and whether they saw themselves as a role model with their nutrition habits. This study was designed in the case study pattern of the qualitative research method. The sample group consists of 24 pre-service science teachers studying at a state university in the science education department in the spring term of the 2020-2021 academic year. Criterion sampling, one of the purposive sampling methods, was used. Data were collected through interviews consisting of open-ended semi-structured questions. A semi-structured interview form consisting of nine open-ended questions was used during the interview. Data were analyzed with content analysis, and themes, categories, and codes were created. The study's findings displayed that pre-service teachers were aware of healthy nutrition habits. The essential factor in the formation of their nutrition habits is family. They think that teachers and the school environment in primary and secondary schools can affect individuals' healthy nutrition habits. They use the internet as the most common source of nutrition, and they do not have healthy nutrition habits. Additionally, they do not see themselves as role models for students concerning the subject. It was determined that the pre-service teachers do not make choices by considering their health in their nutritional preferences, and they eat unhealthy despite the knowledge.
Yazar isimleri: ['Evrim URAL', 'Can YOLAGİDEN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Anadolu Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ulasbid/issue/70080/1121150
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2446565
