Makale Başlığı: The primary factor for suture configuration at rotator cuff repair: Width of mattress or distance from tear edge
Özet: Objectives: To investigate whether the bite size or the bite distance from the tear edge is of primary importance in mattress suture configuration for rotator cuff repair. Secondly, whether the use of a 450  left side bent Arthro-PierceTM (Smith &Nephew, Andover, USA) during suture passage can be more effective on the strength of the configuration compared to a straight Arthro-PierceTM. Materials and methods Twenty-eight bovine infraspinatus muscle tendons were randomized into four groups. (Group 1; 5 mm wide 'bite size'X 15 mm length 'distance from the tear edge's mattress; Group 2: 7.5 mm X 10 mm; Group 3: 15 mm X 5 mm 'using straight Arthro-PierceTM' and Group 4: 5 mm X 15 mm using left sided 450 bent Arthro-PierceTM. The repair specimens underwent cyclic loading prior to loading the failure testing. Cyclic elongation (mm), peak-to-peak displacement (mm), ultimate load (N), stiffness (N/mm) and failure mode were recorded for each specimen. Results The mean ultimate load in Group 1 was higher compared to group 3.  The peak to peak displacement was higher in Group 4 compared to Group 1 (p<0.05). The predominant failure mode in Groups 1, 2 and 4  was suture rupture. The Group 3 most specimens failed due to suture cut through the tendon. Conclusion Bite size from the edge of the tendon seems to be more important than the width of the mattress. The curve of the suture passing device may also have an effect on the strength of the suture tendon interface. DOI: 10.3944/AOTT.2015.15.0295This abstract belongs to the un-edited version of the article and is only for informative purposes. Published version may differ from the current version.
Yazar isimleri: ['Onur HAPA', 'Onur BAŞÇI']
Yayın Yılı: 3 Haziran 2016
Dergi ismi: Acta Orthopaedica et Traumatologica Turcica
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aott/issue/18258/192534
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/user/project/new
