Makale Başlığı: Improving Intercultural Sensitivity in Turkish Language Course to Migrants Through Tales
Özet: The aim of this study is to examine the process of creating intercultural sensitivity of sixth grade students to migrants via tales. The study is carried out with 24 sixth grade students, consisting of 14 females and 10 males. The study is comprised of two stages. The first stage is the design and implementation of course plans, and second is the presentation of the data with themes obtained from observations, interviews, and documents. Concordantly, by utilization of a tales from Meskhetian Turks in Turkish Language courses, a 6-hour course plan, each of which is 40 minutes, was designed. To study the process of creating intercultural sensitivity by means of tales, observation, document analyses after implementation, and individual vis-a-vis semi-structured interviews were used. By construing the themes reached as result of the analyses of the data obtained, study finding are come up with and discussed in the witness of the resources. It is observed that particularly three themes came forward in the process of improving intercultural sensitivity: recognition, resemblance, and empathy. It is noted as result of the analyses conducted that student, when got a favorable acquaintance with a different culture, they recognized and got curious such culture, tried to resemble it with their own, and develop an empathy with it. In conclusion, it is possible to say that ability to improve intercultural sensitivity might be ensured by means of tales in Turkish language courses. Taken together, it can be suggested to include tales which belong different cultures that have migrated to Turkey in the textbooks. The more frequent inclusion of such text in textbooks may support development of student’s intercultural sensitivity.
Yazar isimleri: ['Burcu ÇILDIR']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Anadolu Journal of Educational Sciences International
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ajesi/issue/71051/987522
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1943632
