Makale Başlığı: THE EFFECT OF SALVIA, LAVANDULA AND FENNEL AS PIGMENTS IN GUM BICROMATE PHOTO PRINT
Özet: Mungo Ponton obtained the image whilst Daguerre and Talbot found the photographic image whenhe put a negative film on the picture paper on which he had applied a potassium bichromate solutionand exposed it under the sun. It was his success that the image could be procured without the use ofsilver salts. He claimed the photographic technique he invented in 1839 with the title "AnInexpensive and Simple Method of Preparing Photographic Paper". The printing made with paper,gum arabic and potassium bichromate was later colored by adding dyestuffs by different people.Today, there are artists who use old photographic printing methods together with today's imagingtechnologies. They prefer this approach to increase their artistic expression and emotional load.Besides, returning to nature is also the choice of artists today.Humanity's relationship with plants goes back a long way. Plants are taking place more and more inthe pharmaceutical, cosmetic and food industries. Many plants are used for dyeing wool and fabricdue to their natural pigment properties.In this study, the visual effects of dried salvia, lavandula and fennel, which are medicinal andaromatic herbs, were investigated in coloring gum bichromate, which is an old photographic printingmethod. The research on the use of the plants practiced in our study in the gum bichromate printingmethod was not found in the literature review. Pigmented printing results for different dyestuffs wereexamined with spectrophotometric and densitometric measurements, macro and microscopicphotographs. Applications have shown that salvia, lavandula and fennel give distinctive color to theprint in different tones.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Disiplinlerarası ve Kültürlerarası Sanat
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijiia/issue/72481/1170718
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2631340
