Makale Başlığı: The struggles in and around Erzurum from the Fall of Ilkhanids to Qara Qoyunids Dominion
Özet: This study focuses on the political and military activities of the state or smaller political organizations that gained their independence in certain geographies as a result of the disintegration of the Ilkhanate State in Erzurum and its environs. It is known that Sutays, Jalayirids, Chobanids and Eretnids were dominant in Erzurum and its surroundings from the collapse of the Ilkhanid State to the domination of the Qara Qoyunlu Turkmans. The Sutays, who were the first rulers of the region, acted together with the Celayirs in the struggles between the Celayirs and the Chobanids who wanted to seize the Ilkhanid heritage. However, as a result of the conflict within the Sutays dynasty, the Sutays lands were administered by two separate administrations. This situation caused the weakening of the Sutays. The destruction and plunder of the Chobanids in Erzurum and its environs had a major blow to the political, social and economic life of the mentioned places, and caused radical changes in the demographic structure. After the Sutays domination, Erzurum remained under the rule of Jalayirids for a short time. It has been revealed that the city was under the rule of the Chobanids until 1358 and the Eretnids from 1360. Today, there are architectural structures belonging to Sutays and Chobanids in Erzurum and its vicinity. The city of Erzurum is among the mints where coins were minted in the name of the sultans of Jalayirs. It is also known that coins were minted in Erzurum on behalf of the Eretnids rulers. All these material elements are the remnants that confirm the dominance of the aforementioned political organizations in Erzurum and its environs. In the study, besides the main sources, research works related to the subject were also used.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ensar MACİT', 'Yunus Emre AYDIN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Yüzüncü Yıl Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yyusbed/issue/72889/1145470
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2545142
