Makale Başlığı: GOLDEN RATIO AND FIBONACCI SEQUENCE:  UNIVERSAL FOOTPRINTS OF THE GOLDEN FLOW
Özet: Golden Ratio and Fibonacci numbers have attracted attention from mathematicians, artists, architects, sculptors and musicians for centuries. Golden Ratio was associated with Ancient Greek art and architecture, and named after Greek sculptor Phidias (4th and 5th Century BC). Fibonacci sequence which is closely related to Golden Ratio was discovered by an Italian mathematician Leonardo Pisano Bigollo (1170-1250) in 1202. Those two phenomena have created a considerably extensive literature but the studies mainly focused on documenting where we encounter them in human body, in nature, in plants, in animal kingdom, in art and architecture. Golden Ratio was also known as Divine Proportion since commonly observed in nature. Yet, there have been few arguments or attempts to explain real reasons behind the existence of these numbers in nature and in universe. This study documented literature and collected puzzling pieces from various fields such as ancient philosophers, Far East philosophies, Western philosophy, mysticism, economy, sociology, religious scriptures, botany, psychology, astronomy, physics, mathematics and evolutionary approaches. This study aimed to construct a philosophical theory based on a physics phenomenon that widely influenced many fields including art. The information evolved through literature was used to construct an explanation why Golden Ratio and Fibonacci sequence existed in the universe. Starting from Heraclitus (535-475 BC) of Ephesus, there have been claims that all existence is in a constant flow (Panta rhei) motion. This study suggested Golden Ratio and Fibonacci numbers as evidences of a constant universal flow motion which could further be supported by many empirical evidences from the literature.
Yazar isimleri: ['Rasim BASAK']
Yayın Yılı: 7 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Online Journal of Design Art and Communication
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tojdac/issue/72513/1144318
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2540425
