Makale Başlığı: On the Axis of Existence and Absence, the Button as a Cultural and Symbolic Element of Clothing
Özet: Clothing is a tool that protects people against external influences. It has been used in many different functions throughout history, with the materials it is made of, the markings on it, the colors it contains, the shapes it appears and the purposes of use. In this respect, many different branches of science have seen clothing as an object worth researching. When viewed from the perspective of folklore, the headdress of folk clothing examines the clothing and its complements. In this study, the button, which is an accessory that complements it or gives it a different meaning, will be examined rather than an outfit. The first function of the button, which is to hold the dress together, will be discussed based on the presence and absence of the button rather than the easy wearing and removal of the dress. At this point, it is aimed to explain what kind of symbolic meanings an element that is not paid much attention in the daily environment has, and what kind of indicators these codes are met from a cultural point of view. The review aims to evaluate the button in terms of Turkish culture in general terms, but some international clothes, behaviors and uses will also be supportive to make sense of the general. The main axis of the evaluation to be made is the discussion of the cultural perspective and the effects of the public in the presence and absence of the button. For this purpose, situations and uses related to buttons in areas such as folk poetry, folk beliefs, folk narratives, transitional period practices, professional folklore, and folk clothing have been selected and a sample has been formed. As a result of the study, it will be revealed where an object is in the mental structure and in the seem of the public.
Yazar isimleri: ['Uğur DURMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: YAZIT Kültür Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yazit/issue/73917/1200049
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2753946
