Makale Başlığı: CULTURAL GEOGRAPHY TEACHING WITH STRUCTURED EMBEDDED THEORY APPROACH
Özet: Cultural geography was founded by Carl Sauer in America and named as traditional cultural geography. This approach, which is a part of the positivism critique of human geography was criticized with ontological and epistemological realities during the cultural turn process in the 1980s. Because their approaches to culture are limited to the interpretation of history and the countryside and irrelevant to contemporary cultural issues. They did not see how individuals were differentiated in terms of their gender and social class. With this criticism, new cultural geographers challenged traditional cultural geography and created a debate on the ownership of the subject. This helped to accelerate the discipline positioning of cultural geography in the 1990s, which revived the critical turn of the larger discipline. In this context, the aim of the study is to determine how cultural geography should be taught. This study was conducted through semi-structured interviews with twenty-five students studying in the geography teaching department of Marmara University in the 2020-2021 academic year. In the study carried out  with the structured embedded theory method, it was aimed to reveal the experiences of the participants in the cultural geography teaching process, how culture is effective in their lives, their experiences and perceptions about it. It is important that there is no previous study on cultural geography teaching. Consequently, the social order is not a given or a natural state. This social order has been created for capitalism and the power that causes injustice has been institutionalized. Representations, patriarchal structure, cultural industries, discourses and practices have been effective in the institutionalization of power. By criticizing power, its negative impact on individuals can be reduced and thus social transformation can be achieved. This transformation can be possible with the dissemination of new cultural geography teaching.
Yazar isimleri: ['Miyase OKUR', 'Münür BİLGİLİ']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Ankara Üniversitesi Dil ve Tarih-Coğrafya Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dtcfdergisi/issue/70281/1084766
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2297789
