Makale Başlığı: Examination of the Social Skills of Primary School 1st Grade Children Who Lived Their Early Childhood Period in the Pandemic
Özet: This research aims to examine the social skills of 6-7 year-old primary school children who have lived through the pandemic process in their early childhood, in terms of family and teacher dimensions. The research has been designed with convergent parallel mixed design. With the typical case sampling method, the study group has been consisted of 67 children attending the 1st grade of a primary school in Bursa. The quantitative data of the study have been collected from the parents and teachers of the children with the "Preschool Social Skills Assessment Scale" developed by Ömeroğlu et al. (2012). The qualitative data of the study have been obtained through a semi-structured interview form with 4 primary school first grade teachers and 4 first grade parents. In addition, the researcher has made observations by attending the class for 30 minutes with the students once a week for 3 months. In the quantitative results of the study, the "skills to manage their emotions" remained at the lowest score among all dimensions. While there was a significant difference in favor of girls in "academic support skills", according to family opinions, according to teachers' opinions, there was a significant difference in favor of boys in terms of "friendship skills". In the correlation analysis between the family and the teacher, a positive relationship has been found between the views of family and teachers in the dimensions of initial skills (r: 0.312), academic support skills (r: 0.266) and friendship skills (r: 0.276). In the qualitative aspect of the study, it has been revealed that the pandemic had the most impact on the "emotional management skills", however, peer bullying and digital addiction were very common.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nuray KOÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 14 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: İnönü Üniversitesi Sağlık Hizmetleri Meslek Yüksek Okulu Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/inonusaglik/issue/73147/1155682
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2576965
