Makale Başlığı: EVALUATION OF HARIRI'S MAKAMAT IN THE CONTEXT OF ACCOUNTING CONCEPTS AND PRINCIPLES
Özet: Organizations carry out their activities in line with the realities of today's world. However, these activities have been the subject of philosophical works written centuries ago, and conti-nue to be the subject of contemporary scientific works written in recent years. This situation reveals the possibility to reconcile today's organizational principles and realities with the nar-rative elements included in the works written in the past centuries. The purpose of this study is to evaluate Hariri's Makamat, a twelfth century thinker, in the context of accounting scien-ce. In accordance with the main axis of the article, "What kind of similarities can be mentio-ned between the narrative elements in the primary source works and the actual organizatio-nal realities and to what extent does such a claim overlap with contemporary organizational theories?" attempts were made to seek answers to their questions. Based on the axiom that narrative elements play a prominent role in the construction of all organizational principles and the reflection of the present realities, it is inferred that the basic principles of the accoun-ting function are not outside this general context. In the article, the aspects related to the theo-retical equivalents of the findings obtained within the scope of analyzing literary narratives in the current literature are discussed. In the context of the findings obtained in the article, it was concluded that the narrative elements and the concepts and principles of accounting as organizational practice reflect each other due to the nature of the interactional process, and that the organizational reality can come to light in different ways, and that such different reflections do not contradict the theoretical aspect of accounting science. Due to the fact that it is a literary work, it was predicted that the aspect of Makamat concerning accounting was not emphasized, and this prediction was confirmed in the literature review. Due to the limited resources of the previous article, the issues discussed in the article have been tried to be put forward with an exploratory and original understanding
Yazar isimleri: ['Uğur KESKİN']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Mayıs 2022
Dergi ismi: Gaziantep Üniversitesi İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gauniibf/issue/69952/1002487
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2001302
