Makale Başlığı: EFFECTS OF CLASSICAL ORGANIZATION THEORY ON THE PRESENT: MCDONALDIZED EDUCATION SYSTEM ANALYSIS
Özet: In this study, the relationship between the basic principles of Classıcal Organization Theory and McDonaldization has been estaplished through the education system. İn Classical Organization Theory, while the management phenomenon is handled systematically and scientifically the human phenomeon is ignored. McDonaldization also shows similar features and reveals standard structures. İn the article the McDonaldized education system has been evaluated with in the firsts of Classical Organization Theory. As a matter of fact in Classical Organization Theory it is expected that people will do the same job all the time and a machine type organization structure is designed. İn the McDonaldized education system students are required to have a standard structure. This education model which increases standardization creates a passive student type. This article argues that there are similarities between the two cases. The study was explained through the McDonaldized education system the distance education system. İn this study first of all the conceptual framework of Taylorism, Fayolism and Weberism which are among the Classical Organization Theories is defined and then the concept of McDonaldization is discussed. İn the study it was conclude that the McDonaldized education system became widespread with the development of technology. The distance education system which has become widespread with the Covid-19 epidemic has made this situation more evident. With in the scope of all these developments the article evaluates how technological developments make human life easier as well as how it McDonaldizes it throught the education system. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Mukaddes SALUK']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Akademik Düşünce Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/akademikdusunce/issue/71412/1080615
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2281029
