Makale Başlığı: CFD Analysis of the Effect of Evaporator Placement on Warehouse Products In A Cold-Storage Depot
Özet: Cold storages are of great importance in preserving the freshness of foods. The ability of foods to preserve their nutritional value depends on conditioning the room air at the right temperature and humidity. The temperature and humidity balance is realized with the conditioned air supplied from the evaporators to the environment. In this study; in cold storage rooms, the position of the evaporators in the room, which are used to distribute the cold air to the storage environment, on the temperature and speed distributions, on the product losses caused by the air flow, has been investigated.Experimental study was carried out in a cold room with citrus fruits. The data obtained in the experimental studies were compared by simulating in the CFD program for the same storage conditions, and the overlap and usability of the results were determined. Various evaporator positions were simulated and their temperatures and product stacking conditions were tried to be determined. In case the evaporator is positioned on a single wall; air distribution and temperature conditioned by product stacking are not rigid. In case the evaporators are positioned opposite each other on narrow walls, it has been determined that it would be more appropriate to stack the product in the middle of the storage and at appropriate intervals. The position of the evaporator on wide single walls provides the temperature to be evenly distributed, but on the other hand, it may cause moisture loss in the product.During the establishment of a cold air facility or in existing cold rooms, it is thought that product stacking forms, air flows and temperature distributions firstly simulating with CFD analysis program will reduce product losses, energy savings, and gains in time and operating costs.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fevzi BALKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 9 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Mühendis ve Makina
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/muhendismakina/issue/70148/1126774
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2469790
