Makale Başlığı: Sufi Interpretation of The Some Verses About Prophet Muhammad
Özet: Muhammad (pbuh) is the last prophet sent by Allah to mankind. Qur'an is the last divine message sent through him. In some verses of the Qur'an, which contains many universal principles, the Prophet's struggle with polytheists and deniers is mentioned, as well as his distinguished position among the prophets. It is stated that it is "best example” (‘usva al-hasene) for believers, and some qualities related to him are also mentioned. For this reason, his personal characteristics are expressed in some verses. Allah addresses the Prophet in various verses of the Qur'an and draws attention to some of his qualities. In some verses, it is seen that certain features of him are emphasized. Muhammad, who is the last of the prophets (Hatam en-nebiyyin), is also the last of the prophets of ulu’l’azm (magic prophets). The names of “Muhammad” and “Ahmed” are clearly mentioned in the Qur'an. Allah has sent a prophet to every society since Adam. Hz. Muhammad is like a divine seal confirming all prophets. Therefore, there will be no messenger or prophet after him. The most important thing that distinguishes Muhammad from other prophets in terms of prophecy is that his prophethood is valid for all people who will come until the Day of Judgment. He is presented in the Qur'an as an exemplary and ideal person for all humanity. he is described as “usva al-hasene/the best example”. It is stated that he was a prophet of mercy to the worlds, and it is mentioned that he was very compassionate and merciful towards believers. It is noted that he is humble and soft-hearted in his attitudes towards his society. It is also reported that he experienced the event of Isra, which no human being, including the prophets, had ever experienced. It has been especially emphasized that Hz. Muhammad who called people to the Truth (Haqiqah) throughout his twenty-three-year prophethood, was never coercive, tyrannical and hard-hearted when conveying Islam. He always explained the truth to people in a gentle and advising style; He cleansed them of polytheism, unbelief and hypocrisy, and taught them the book, wisdom and what they did not know. In order to enter the world of meaning of the Qur'an, which is a miraculous word, Muslims have developed three methods of understanding in the historical process: tafsir, interpretation (ta’wil) and sign (isharah). Among these methods, while tafsir and ta'wil are based on the literal and literal aspects of the word, ishari tafsir makes use of both, but mostly concentrates on esoteric meanings. At the center of this method is the discovery of some tools of understanding such as discovery and inspiration by purifying one's self and purifying his heart. In this respect, this method of interpretation developed by the Sufis differs from tafsir and ta'wil. The verses describing Hz. Muhammad have been interpreted within the framework of the method of narration and insight in the literature of tafsir. The works that contain the interpretations of the Sufis about the texts have been examined under the title of ishari tafsir as a separate genre from tafsir and ta'wil due to the difference in their methodologies. Sufi commentators also commented on the relevant verses in accordance with their methodology. In this article, the interpretations of the verses about Muhammad in the ishari tafsir will be determined and evaluated. Since there is no study on the subject so far, the results of the research will make a serious contribution to the interpretations formed within the framework of the Qur'an.
Yazar isimleri: ['Selim ÇAKIROĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Yakın Doğu Üniversitesi İslam Tetkikleri Merkezi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yaduitmed/issue/70670/1026796
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2093339
