Makale Başlığı: Efficacy of Posterior Tibial Nerve Stimulation in the Treatment of Urinary Incontinence
Özet: Urinary Incontinence (UI) is known as voluntary urinary incontinence or involuntary urinary incontinence.UI may be via the urethra or due to the ectopic urethra. Conservative treatment is considered first-line therapy for most urinary incontinence patients, as it has minimal side effects and does not worsen the patient's symptoms. The physiotherapy approach includes bladder training, pelvic floor muscle training, biofeedback, and electrical stimulation. Electrical stimulation physiotherapy is one of the methods that can be used for the treatment of UI in clinical practice. Transcutaneous tibial nerve stimulation (TTNS) aims to facilitate the inhibition of the detrusor muscle through electrostimulation in the tibial nerve pathway. TTNS is a simple, non-invasive, well-tolerated technique that is considered a conservative and effective treatment for patients. In addition, it has advantages such as being easy to apply, being easily portable and not causing pain in patients. In the region extending along the posterior tibial nerve above the medial malleolus, an area corresponding to the acupuncture point (spleen-6), aimed at the high response and the traditional relief of various urinary complaints, has been identified. TPTSS is a non-invasive procedure and has no systemic side effects.All researches related to the subject in 2012 (last ten years) and until February 2022 in the determined databases were examined. When searching by typing "tibial nerve and urinary incotinence", 29 studies were found by selecting only titles in advanced searches in PubMed, Science Direct, and Google Scholar.These results have been studied in detail. At the end of the review, seven articles were found to be suitable. TPTSS was used more in studies and compared with placebo or application to another site. In general, the results of the TPTSS group were more significant than the other groups (p<0.05). TPTSS is not a fully standardized technique. In this context, new studies are needed to determine the optimal parameters of electrical stimulation, the most effective treatment protocols and long-term efficacy and applicability to patients.
Yazar isimleri: ['Musa ÇANKAYA', 'Maria CİORBADJİ']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Black Sea Journal of Health Science
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bshealthscience/issue/68048/1084661
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2297388
