Makale Başlığı: ANALYSIS OF INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENTS: BIST SUSTAINABILITY INDEX
Özet: Purpose- Assurance engagements are conducted to increase the confidence of decision makers in this information by auditing the non-financial information about companies by an independent institution. Companies disclose their non-financial information in their sustainability reports or integrated reports, and if they have received assurances from independent audit firms for this information, they also include independent assurance statements in these reports. The purpose of this study is to determine whether companies included in the BIST Sustainability Index (XUSRD) have an independent assurance statement regarding non-financial performance indicators, and to examine the content of these statements, if any.Methodology- For this purpose, the year 2020 sustainability reports and integrated reports of 65 companies included in the BIST Sustainability Index were examined, and the independent assurance statements included in these reports were analyzed using the content analysis technique, one of the qualitative analysis methods.Findings- As a result of the research, 22 (34%) of the 65 companies included in the BIST Sustainability Index have an independent assurance statement from independent audit firms. It has been determined that the companies received an independent assurance statement 36.4% are manufacturing, 36.4% are financial institutions, the remaining 27.2% is in wholesale and retail trade, electricity, gas and water and construction and public works sectors. All 22 companies with independent assurance statements received limited assurance. It is among the findings that 2 (9%) of these companies received assurance only for environmental indicators, 9 (41%) for environmental and social indicators, 11 (50%) for environmental, social and economic indicators. In addition, all of the independent audit firms that give an independent assurance statement consist of three big audit firms within the big four. It has been found that there are 2 statements in which only the ISAE 3000 standard is used in the assurance engagement, 17 statements that the ISAE 3000 standard is used with the ISAE 3410 standard, 2 statements that the ISAE 3000 standard is used with the ISO 14064-3 standard, and 1 statement that the ISAE 3000 standard is used with the AA1000 standard.Conclusion- It has been seen that even in the BIST Sustainability Index, which includes companies traded on Borsa Istanbul with a high level of sustainability performance, companies do not demand much assurance. Assurance statements that guide decision makers about the accuracy of non-financial information are an indicator of the transparency of companies. The assurance of this information by the companies will increase the reliability and reputation of the companies.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: PressAcademia Procedia
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/pap/issue/71641/1153264
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2572822
