Makale Başlığı: The Importance of the Historical Background in Understanding the Verses of the Qur'an: The Example of Tefhîm al-Qur'an.
Özet: Having information about the environment in which the Qur'an was revealed will allow the verses to be understood better. Because the Qur'an it was revealed to a society with tradition and custom and shaped the society to a certain extent. The historical background of the verses is important in order to understand the way the Qur'an has shaped the society in which it was revealed. Thus, the nature of the relationship between the verses and the customs and habits of that day will be understood. We tried to point out the importance of the subject in this study. We have tried to show this through the examples in Mawdudi's tafsir "Tafhim al-Qur’an" since it has a rich content in terms of historical background information. In order to reveal the difference of Mawdudi's work on this issue, we compared his explanations with the explanations in other tafsirs. When the "historical background of the verses” is mentioned, although the political, social, cultural, economic situations/conditions of the society in the process of the revelation of the Qur'an are understood at first, Mawdudi used it in a broader sense and evaluated the information belonging to the period before the revelation of the Qur'an in this way. In other words, he included information about how and when an event or expression related to the period before the revelation of the Qur'an in the verses, how it developed and changed in the historical process, under the name of historical background. While Mawdudi gives historical background information about the period of the revelation of the Qur'an, he made use of the content of the verses, the asbab al-nuzul, the history books written by Muslim scholars; On the other hand, he benefited from the Bible, Talmud, encyclopedias, archaeological information and findings, history books and diaries written by Jewish and Christian scholars in information about the period before the revelation of the Qur'an. While sharing this information, he also included maps and sketches from time to time. It can be said that his work differs from the previous works in this aspect.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hasan İslam SAK']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Bilimname
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bilimname/issue/73035/1128925
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2478940
