Makale Başlığı: Waves of protests in Iraq after 2003: Its causes and impact on the political process in the country
Özet: Demonstrations in 2011 and beyond cannot be separated. The reasons for the demonstrators were: the failure of successive governments after the occupation to provide security and services, and the spread of financial and administrative corruption. This charge is supported by evidence and documents from the same parties involved in the political process. This is one of the reasons that led to the uprising of February 25, 2011, and the subsequent to the 2013 demonstrations. There are also other reasons of great importance to a wide spectrum of Iraqis such as: restricting freedoms, frequent arrests and enforced disappearances of citizens. Thus, this confused picture will be complemented with another one that occurred after 2014, which led to increased suffering and challenges. This is due to the increasing number of absentees, as well as a wide spectrum of people living either in refugee camps or in areas where services are not suitable for living according to the most basic humanitarian standards. If this image represents a part of the people of Iraq, the other part of it does not live better than the loss of services. Young people live in a state of loss as a result of lack of employment opportunities and the spread of drugs (crystals). Therefore, there were annual regional demonstrations united by the reasons for which they demonstrated, as well as several demonstrations by the unemployed. This helps the spread of organized crime gangs, as a result of the uncontrolled spread of weapons, which causes a lot of clashes between the Iraqi tribes, and the result of the demonstrations in October 2019. These and other reasons were and still pose challenges to any government, in the context that the formation of the government is based on consensus and sectarian alignment. This research stems from the hypothesis that "the challenges facing the Iraqi government after 2011 are the same as before, which impedes the maturity of the political process and avoid deficiencies in its policy." In addition to the introduction and conclusion, this research will include a number of demands discussing the causes of the demonstrations that took place in 2011 and beyond. How did the Iraqi governments deal with them and what were the results of these demonstrations in light of the interaction of governments with them? Hence, in a final demand, a reading of the future of Iraq will take. place in light of the internal challenges facing the government.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hassan Hadi AL-ZUBADİ']
Yayın Yılı: 7 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Ortadoğu Etütleri
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ortetut/issue/71071/1133362
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2497246
