Makale Başlığı: APPLIED THEORY EDUCATION IN COMMUNICATION STUDIES: EXAMPLE OF COMMUNICATION THEORIES LECTURE
Özet: The importance of theoretical knowledge in communication studies is indisputably great. Guidance of theoretical knowledge for the examination and solution of the problem handled by the researcher is necessary for testing the result to be obtained and presenting it in scientific norms. However, there may be problems in transferring this information to students in courses with communication content. At the beginning of these problems, the lack of attention and meditation in the student stands out as an important problem. In order to overcome the problem, it is considered that applied lectures are important. In this context, a focus group study was conducted with 13 graduate students of Istanbul Aydın University New Media Program during the research phase of the study. In the New Media Applications course in the Fall 2021-2022 academic year, students were studied in a focus group form. In the context of the lesson, some communication theories were transferred to the students in a practical way, and the students were asked to write articles related to the theoretical information conveyed in the lessons. In the context of article studies on students' research, data were collected within two months and the research was concluded. The extent to which the problems identified and analyzed in these studies overlap with the theories and to what extent this information can be applied were examined by the content analysis method. Thus, the degree of compatibility between the theoretical course content and the applied courses and its permanence in terms of students were investigated.
Yazar isimleri: ['Tamer BAYRAK', 'Deniz YENGİN']
Yayın Yılı: 7 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Online Journal of Design Art and Communication
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tojdac/issue/72513/1141334
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2528592
