Makale Başlığı: CULTURAL ELEMENTS IN TURKISH / RUSSIAN TEACHING BOOKS FOR FOREIGNERS
Özet: While creating the textbooks, first the themes and then the reading texts suitable for these themes are selected. Before including the elements of the culture of the society in all areas of life in the reading texts, the general themes and the subject of the texts should be determined. Knowledge of the country, the customs performed in all kinds of rituals, the words that should be said during these rituals, proverbs and idioms according to the situation should definitely be included in the texts, and these should be transferred from the simplest to the most difficult to individuals who learn the language. In the texts, not only the culture of the target language, but also the common universal values of the whole world should be handled. Universal values such as mercy, compassion, affection and loving animals are common in the world. But national values vary from society to society. Themes can be universal, but when the topics that are chosen can be nationalized. The aim of this study is to compare and evaluate especially the teaching of national cultural elements in the texts used in teaching Turkish and Russian as a foreign language and to contribute to teaching Turkish as a foreign language by making suggestions in the light of the data obtained. In this study (A2), the texts taking place in the textbooks such as Poyehali 1 (A1), Poyehali 2.1 (A2), Poyehali 2.2 (A2-B1) Doroga v Rossiyu I, II, III, Okno v Rossiyu I. II- Yeni Hitit I, II, III, Gazi TÖMER 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 create the documents of the research. In this study, cultural elements in textbooks in teaching Turkish and Russian to foreigners have been examined by means of using document analysis method. As a result, it has been observed that national cultural elements are not sufficiently included in the teaching of Turkish as a foreign language, there are deficiencies in the examined documents and suggestions are made within this framework.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayfer KARA', 'Şener DEMİREL']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Çukurova Üniversitesi Türkoloji Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cutad/issue/70298/1062238
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2209593
