Makale Başlığı: The Relationship between Women and Nature in Ancient Turks in the Context of Ecofeminism
Özet: The simultaneous exploitation of women and nature by the existing patriarchal structure has been criticized by feminists, and various solutions have been proposed so that women and nature can get rid of this masculine domination together. In the 1970s, a synthesis was formed and an ecofeminist understanding emerged with the influence of the increasing environmental movements and the emerging 2nd wave feminist movements. The ecofeminist movement, which thinks that it is possible to get rid of the common exploitation of women and nature with a fair and egalitarian understanding that is not based on gender, assumes that the social structure and order should be re-established. In this context, various suggestions are offered. One of them is tribal culture or a matriarchal structure or a more universalist approach to the domination of patriarchy. Thus, it is thought that existing inequalities can be eliminated. From this point of view, in this study, the relationship between women and nature in the ancient Turks will be examined. Acting on the assumption that the unequal relations produced by the current patriarchal structure can be ended and for the reconstructing or making sense of the relationship between women and nature will be tried to be produced alternative suggestions.In order to understand the foundations of the masculine point of view that dominates all areas of life in today's society, it is necessary to understand the dominant thought of the ancient period about women and nature. The relationship between women and nature is generally based on the fertility of women. The earth is also defined by feminine characteristics due to its fertility, which strengthens the bond between woman and nature. Women are considered to be “compassionate, altruistic, non-violent, emotional”. Woman's fertility and these features make her compatible and similar to nature. Just like nature, woman produces a living thing and shows the necessary dedication for its survival. When we look at traditional societies, women act in harmony with nature in order to provide what they need for herself and her family, and respect it. In this context, it is useful to follow the traces of the past in order to solve the existing social problems. The egalitarian understanding of the social relations existing in the ancient Turks, the perception of women in society, the love of nature, the intertwining with nature are very important guides in order to solve today's social and ecological problems.
Yazar isimleri: ['Aylin Benazır ATEŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Akademik Açı
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/akademikaci/issue/73292/1129597
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2481684
