Makale Başlığı: An Analysis on Wisdom Interpretations Regarding Qur'anic Sciences In the Example of el-Itḳān fī 'Ulūm al-Qurʾān
Özet: In this study, the handling of the concept of wisdom in Suyūtī's work called el-Itḳān fī ʿulūmi'l-Qurʾān is discussed. As the name suggests, this work is about the sciences of the Qurʾān. Therefore, it includes the subjects of the discipline of tafsir. In Suyūtī's work in question, there is no separate wisdom title or subject. For this reason, it would not be right for the reader to set his/her expectation to such information in the research. Suyūtī has associated the subjects with wisdom in some of the titles of his work. Wisdom, one of the words that have a place in the Qurʾān, is used emphatically and has different meanings according to the phrase it is put into. In general, wisdom is distinguished by definitions such as putting everything in its place and preventing evil and harm. Most of the commentators on the meaning of wisdom are united in knowing the truth and acting accordingly, on the axis of the Qurʾān and Sunnah. The concept of wisdom has also been the focus of attention in other disciplines. In this context, the concept of wisdom has been interpreted in various ways in science branches such as Kalām, Philosophy, Fiqh and Sufism. This subject has been dealt with in a very wide area such as how the universe works, what is good and bad for humans, and the relationship between God and human. Suyūtī's work el-Itḳān fī ʿulūmi'l-Qurʾān is one of the few important works written in the field of Qur'ānic sciences. In this respect, it is a reference source for the books written after him. Some of the topics covered in Itḳān were tried to be enriched with wisdom interpretations. Some of the topics covered in Itḳān were tried to be enriched with wisdom interpretations. Related wisdom interpretations are sometimes based solely on Suyūtī's interpretation, while most are based on other Muslim scholars. According to the findings we obtained in our study, the wisdom interpretations in question were made in connection with religious sentimentality from time to time. However, such interpretations are not first encountered in Suyūti's work. In this aspect, Suyūtī actually continued the tradition before it. Although there was no objection to this, a scholar who was an authority in Islamic sciences like Suyūtī was sometimes expected to criticize, analyze or argumentative approach, when necessary. But Suyūtī often did not do this. Of course, his own scientific understanding or methodical approach to issues may have been effective in this attitude, or he may have acted like this for other reasons. Contemporary tafsir works written in Turkey have also associated some subjects with wisdom. Contemporary tafsir works written in Turkey have also associated some subjects with wisdom. However, the authors of the related works have quoted the wisdom interpretations without any additions. They made some interpretations by opposing some of the wisdom interpretations that the subject would pose a problem in terms of religion. Usūl and ulūmu'l-Qur'ān books written in Turkey are generally addressed to the students of theology faculty. Therefore, these books are mostly used as textbooks in theology faculties. In our opinion, the interpretations of wisdom found in the works in question should be presented to the reader after being subjected to a serious analysis. Otherwise, the reader may perceive what is written in the book almost as a nass and may see the secondary interpretation of the relevant subject as a major problem. For this reason, it would be correct for the relevant methodology books to contain these interpretations in a scientific and rational way. One of our suggestions is that the teachers who teach the relevant courses discuss the issues related to scientific and mental methods with the students, even if they are not included in the book, and thus contribute to the development of the students' reasoning. Because sometimes the author of the method, although he includes an interpretation of wisdom, sometimes does this because he wants a relevant information to reach the reader. However, he does not make any other comments on the subject, due to the fact that the book cannot be extended, volume of the book cannot be increased by discussions and similar reasons. The teacher of the course should fill this gap. The teacher of the course should fill this gap. In our opinion, it will be possible to raise fit and free individuals who are better equipped scientifically and intellectually.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gökhan ATMACA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Tokat İlmiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ilmiyat/issue/70723/1058729
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2195638
