Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of Recep Tayyip Erdogan University Ahmet Erdogan Mosque Landscape project in terms of planting design
Özet: Planting design applications, which are carried out in line with functional, ecological, and aesthetic purposes, help to re-establish the interaction between humans and nature in cities that are graying under the pressure of urbanization day by day. Planting design, which is the most basic element of a good landscape design, has an important role in all areas where people spend time. In order to create a successful and sustainable planting design, planting design principles (diversity, emphasis, repetition, balance, etc.) should be taken into consideration, as well as choosing plant taxa suitable for the ecological conditions of the region. In order for plants to reveal the expected benefits (ecological, aesthetic, psychological, etc.), their characteristics (form, color, size, texture, etc.) must be used correctly in the design. Mosque gardens, which represent today's examples of Islamic garden art, are places of great importance in terms of preserving and keeping this culture alive. In terms of regaining the social and public aspects of mosques, the landscape design of the mosque's immediate surroundings and in parallel with the planting design is very important. Within the scope of this study, it was aimed to carry out a successful and sustainable planting design in the area of landscape design of Ahmet Erdoğan Mosque. Plant taxa preferred in planting design and their families, life forms, leaf status and numbers were shared. The usage purposes of these plants within the scope of planting design were examined and evaluations were made.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ömer Lütfü ÇORBACI', 'Türker OĞUZTÜRK', 'Erdi EKREN']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Artvin Çoruh Üniversitesi Orman Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://ofd.artvin.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/73139/1138442
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2517390
