Makale Başlığı: Listening to Students’ Voices: Learning Programming in the Covid-19 Pandemic
Özet: With the global COVID-19 outbreak, the higher education institutions have experienced an abrupt transition to remote education. Although this emergency transition was mandatory for the continuation of the academic activities, it has resulted in some negative effects on students. The programming courses have been one of those where students’ learning experiences were considerably harmed. Although many studies investigated the effects of COVID-19 emergency remote teaching, there has been little or no focus on programming courses. Attending this gap, this qualitative research study examined students’ experiences of learning programming in three undergraduate-level technical courses. An online survey was administered to obtain students’ responses to three open-ended questions about the things they liked, disliked, and recommend changing in the courses taken. The data were analysed and coded using Grounded Theory, which yielded several themes under three main categories: course characteristics enhancing student learning, course characteristics hindering student learning, and the potential improvements. The results highlight the importance of flexible student-centred instruction and frequent opportunities for hands-on practice in in hybrid teaching of programming courses during the pandemic. Moreover, the results indicate that it is important for teachers to establish relations based on tolerance and constructive approach with all students, especially those who have adaptation problems, when teaching during the pandemic. An important implication of the findings is that even with a relatively fast pace and a heavy workload, a systematic course design makes a difference in online learning when supported with a student-centred instruction informed by constructive teaching philosophy and rapport between teachers and students.
Yazar isimleri: ['Erkan ER', 'Gamze SÖKÜCÜ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Ege Eğitim Teknolojileri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/eetd/issue/70271/1130683
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2486131
