Makale Başlığı: TURKISH EDUCATION IN NORTH MACEDONIA
Özet: There is a dense Turkish population in the Republic of North Macedonia. The density of the Turkish population also brings about Turkish teaching activities. While Turkish education in this geography is as old as the existence of Turks, the most intensive Turkish teaching activities took place in the Ottoman Period. However, such factors as the Balkan Wars, the withdrawal of the Ottomans from the region and the understanding of the nation state, etc. have interrupted Turkish teaching activities in this geography. The aim of this study is to detect the Turkish teaching activities in North Macedonia through the opinions of the teachers working there. For this purpose, the research data were obtained through a semi-structured interview form ̶ one of the qualitative data collection techniques. The sample of the study involves 30 participants who carried out Turkish lessons in North Macedonia in the 2020-2021 academic year. The semi-structured interview form developed by the researchers was created on Google Docs and the opinions of the participants were asked on a voluntary basis. The data obtained were analysed based on the content analysis technique and various concepts and relations were analysed in line with the purpose of the study. By looking at the perceptions of the informants, it was found out that Turkish teaching was carried out along problems such as lack of materials, lack of books, insufficient content and translation of the existing books, insensitivity towards the course, insufficient and improper scientific studies, insufficient and scattered support to the region. The problems identified in this research may be improved by conducting up-to-date and in-depth scientific studies, completing the lack of material, carrying out an organized support activity, editing the cultural elements and translations in the books, showing the necessary interest/emphasis on Turkish by creating language awareness.
Yazar isimleri: ['Enes ALTAY', 'Ahmet AKKAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Çukurova Üniversitesi Türkoloji Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cutad/issue/70298/1098063
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2351366
