Makale Başlığı: Siraj Korkut Efendi An ‛Ālim from Travnik: His Life, Character and Struggle
Özet: Bosnia and Herzegovina played a crucial role in the preservation of Islam in the Balkans. By producing numerous notable scholars, the city of Travnik in Bosnia and Herzegovina comes forth in this regard. The Korkut family respectively is one of the most prominent scholars families. It is in this respects that study of Korkut scholars’ biographies is of great importance for Bosnian history and history of Islam. In this paper, I will be focusing on Siraj Korkut Efendi, one the most important names in the family. Siraj Korkut Efendi was born in 1905, in the city of Travnik. His father Muhammad Asim Efendi, his grandfather Muhammad Hazim Efendi and his great grandfather Derwish Muhammad Korkut Efendi performed important duties in Travnik, such as offices of qadi and teaching mastership. Siraj Korkut’s took his first steps in learning with his father and grandfather. After the primary school, he went on to join the madrasa of Elchi Ibrahim Pasha in Travnik, and later proceeded with his education at al-Azhar University in Qairo. In the period of 1932-1945 he was appointed as teacher at the madrasa of Elchi Ibrahim Pasha. But with the ascension to power of Yugoslavian communist regime, the centuires long scholarly family of Korkut was subjected to oppresion and persecution. The Korkuts chose to fight for the preservation of Islam and for the continuation of ancestral scholarly tradition. Unfortunately, affected by persecution Siraj Korkut fell gravely ill and consequently died in 1952 at the age of 47. He is buried at the tomb of Ibrahim Dede, which is situated at entrance to the city. His unyielding scholary struggle also is of paramount importance for the history of Bosnia and Islam.
Yazar isimleri: ['Merzuk GRABUS']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Balıkesir İlahiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/baid/issue/70440/1117404
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2430914
