Makale Başlığı: The Opinions of Teachers who Carry Out Educational Assessment in Guidance and Research Centers on The Assessment Process of Individuals with Multiple Disability
Özet: In this study, it is aimed to determine the opinions of the teacher who makes educational assesment in the Guidance and Research Centers (GRC) regarding the assesment process of individuals with multiple disabilities (MD). A total of nine the teachers working in the guidance and research center, four women and five men, participated in the study. The research was designed according to the qualitative research design and the data were collected with the semi-structured interview technique. The interviews lasted between 7-17 minutes. The data obtained from the interviews were analyzed with the descriptive analysis technique. As a result of the research, it is stated that individuals with MD applied to guidance research centers individually and under the direction of schools; that they had difficulties due to the physical structure of GRC, and that the staff used existing measurement tools while making educational assesments. The staff working in the GRC stated that they had problems in persuading the parents in placing the children with MD into the educational environment; they stated that the distance of the school to be placed, school bus, the physical structures and opportunities of the classes are taken into consideration.They reported that support training is provided according to the child's disability, parents' request and child's progress; the parents' approval is received during the assesment, and the families are informed for family participation. They stated that special education teachers, guidance teachers, families, school administrators and psychological counselors take place in the educational assesment and placement process. Suggestions for improving the educational assesment and placement processes are included.
Yazar isimleri: ['Evgin ÇAY', 'Tuğba SİVRİKAYA', 'Müzeyyen ELDENİZ ÇETİN']
Yayın Yılı: 10 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Van Yüzüncü Yıl Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yyuefd/issue/73718/1108291
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2393973
