Makale Başlığı: TÜBİTAK 4004 Nature Education and Science Schools “Mathematics Is In My Nature!” Evaluation of the Project
Özet: In this study, “There is Mathematics in My Nature!" which was conducted within the scope of TUBITAK 4004 Nature Education and Science Schools’ the project has been evaluated. In the project, it is aimed to carry out nature-themed activities, workshops and laboratory studies, to include knowledge and skills to be gained through new and different learning approaches, to raise awareness about mathematics in students by making them realize the relationship between different disciplines and mathematics, and to contribute to the development of students' individual creativity. In addition, it is among our aims to provide a positive change in the perspectives towards science, to provide students with a critical-artistic-inquiring perspective, to contribute to the bodily-kinesthetic development of the students, and to discover the mathematics hidden in nature and other branches of science. In addition, in this project it is aimed that the participants are actively involved in individual and group work, that their sense of curiosity is activated and that they learn by doing and experiencing. The target group of the project is 7th and 8th grade students studying in public schools in the 2020-2021 academic year. In the project, "Mathematics Attitude Scale", "Mathematics Anxiety Scale", "Affiliation to Nature Scale" and "Activity Studies Evaluation Scale" were applied to the students. In addition, in the light of the findings, it has been seen that students' learning mathematical elements intertwined with nature, by doing and experiencing, contributes to their internalization of the knowledge of mathematics and making mathematics a part of their lives. In the light of the project findings, it was observed that the participants' anxiety towards mathematics decreased, their commitment to nature and their attitudes towards mathematics changed positively. In line with the results obtained from the research, it is thought that the integration of the existing education system into the activities that the students will perform in nature by doing and living will make positive contributions to education.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gülşah SALTIK AYHANÖZ', 'Eser KAHRAMAN', 'Serdar AKMEŞE']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Eğitim Araştırmacıları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ueader/issue/71159/1073161
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2251818
