Makale Başlığı: Edgar Allan Poe Effect in Cihat Burak's Storybook Cardonlar
Özet: Cihat Burak, who is described as the painter of dream countries, has lived together with his paintings and solitude for years. Cihat Burak, who lived between 1915 and 1994, packed a lot into his seventy-nine-year life. He is a name who has created his own style in both painting and story. Despite having studied architecture, Burak, whose painting preceded his architecture, proved that he is a master storyteller by publishing Cardons. Burak, who has not only Cardons but also a story book called Yakutis, won the 1992 Yunus Nadi Short Story Award with this work. In Cardons, the author greets the reader with surprising, frightening and frightening stories. These stories bring to mind Edgar Allan Poe, who was directly influenced by the painter-writer. Poe, who lived between 1809-1849, is an American story writer who influenced many writers in Turkish literature. Poe, one of the 19th century thriller, horror, detective and mystery writers, especially pioneered the horror genre. Especially Edgar Allan Poe, who dealt with death and the fear it brought in his stories, also had his own death as strange as that of the heroes he told in his stories. The stories of Poe, who was found dead on the street and left this world at the age of forty, constitute the main axis of this article. The aim of the article is to investigate the effect of Edgar Allan Poe in the Cardonlar story book and to reveal the extent to which the painter-author was influenced by him with examples. Talking about how he met Poe and how he affected him in his interviews, the Poe effect on the following works in the aforementioned story book will be investigated: Pity, Nausea, Cardons, Socks Line, Lover of the Sea, Chaos or Hatred, Ev. or the Frog, the Three Cut Heads. While examining the Poe effect in these stories, some pictures of the author will also be included, as they are sometimes directly related to the stories.
Yazar isimleri: ['Derya KILIÇKAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Turcology Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/turcology/issue/73283/1196733
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2739745
