Makale Başlığı: Forecasting the Day Ahead Electricity Energy Price By Using Data Analysis Methods
Özet: In this study, it is aimed to determine the most suitable method for electricity price forecasting in the Turkish day ahead electricity market and to test the selected method using real data. In order to forecast the electricity price, forecasting models were created in Python programming language with four different forecasting methods: linear regression, polynomial regression, artificial neural networks, XGBoost analysis method It is aimed that models can make predictions with low deviations, react quickly to short-term changes in price, and have short running times. Models were trained and tested with real data obtained from the Energy Markets Operations (EPİAŞ) Transparency Platform. The data used for analysis is hourly Market Clearing Price (MCP) data and hourly energy production data for each electricity generation source. The data used is hourly data covering the years 2015-2020 and is a large dataset consisting of approximately 40,000 rows. The test data used in the methods were randomly selected from five years of data to ensure a homogeneous distribution. Considering the dynamic structure of the Turkish electricity energy market, actual values and estimated values are compared both graphically and with the mean square error rates (RMSE) metric for four forecasting methods. In addition, the four forecasting methods were compared in terms of running times. When both estimation error rates and running times are evaluated together, XGBoost model was found to be the most appropriate estimation model. Making consistent price estimations will enable both electricity producers and large-capacity consumers to provide accurate supply offers and demand bids and to determine electricity prices precisely within the electricity market structure.
Yazar isimleri: ['Canan KARATEKİN', 'Tanju BAŞARAN']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Iğdır Üniversitesi Fen Bilimleri Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jist/issue/73493/1082880
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2290247
