Makale Başlığı: SUSAN MEISELAS AND THE STUDY “REFRAMING HISTORY” IN THE CONTEXT OF THE INTERCEPTION OF SOCIAL DOCUMENTARY AND CONTEMPORARY ART
Özet: The enlightenment process that followed the Renaissance led to the advancement of human beings in art, as well as in many fields, and a difference in the way they express themselves. First, the depiction went beyond the palace and the subjects it foresees and included daily life in its compositions. With the inclusion of daily life into art, the habit of keeping records included plastic arts within its scope. The discovery of photography has become a necessity to catch up with the speed of everyday life, which increases its speed in parallel with it, to record it faster, clearer, and more objectively. First, photography, which is a documentation device in the hands of the state as an element of the construction of the "ideal society", has quickly entered the field of individual use due to its intensive use and therefore its rapid development in terms of technology. Although this individual use was very strange at first, it later allowed more neutral, more contemporary, and more objective subjects and perspectives to enter the field of photography. The most important of these is “Social Documentation”. The social document has fulfilled its duty to ensure that mankind does not experience these sufferings again, by keeping a record of all the disasters and wars that took place in the past century, continuing in the present century. In this context, Susan Meiselas has been one of the leading representatives of social documentation. Starting from his own environment, Meiselas reflected the social life he witnessed with impartiality, and later developed this language of expression and took it upon himself to convey more universal subjects to the audience. Successfully fulfilling this task, the artist also renewed himself in a way that could reach every new generation with the contemporary presentation forms of photography and did his best to refresh this generation's memory so that the same problems would not occur again.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ebru Ceren UZUN UYSAL']
Yayın Yılı: 18 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Yıldız Journal of Art and Design
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yjad/issue/70535/1094606
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2337455
