Makale Başlığı: Religious Criticism of ISIS
Özet: The prophets, who were sent to guide people to the right path, faced many difficulties and hardships, including violence, while conveying and spreading the divine command to people. In the history of Islam, both Muslims and the Islamic prophet Hz. Muhammad were exposed to many attacks. Accordingly, in all divine religions, a self-defense mechanism has been developed for the continuation of the belief commanded by the creator and to protect the lives of those who believe in that belief. Therefore, using the right of self-defense against attacks should not be equated with violence. However, in the history of Islam, there have been those who abused many sacred values of the religion of Islam in order to support their own ideologies and to make all kinds of works innocent. This study is about ISIS, which has a negative impact on the whole world by using the references of the religion of Islam in the stage we live in. ISIS emerged as a product of the ongoing civil wars in many parts of the Islamic geography. Due to the mission it claims to undertake, it sees its thought as the only representative of salvation in the name of the world and the hereafter in the ongoing civil war environment. ISIS claimed to have established an Islamic State in the lands it seized in Iraq and Syria, where civil war was taking place. The main sources of the religion of Islam, the Qur'ān and hadiths, were interpreted in accordance with their system, away from a certain method. In addition, it interpreted Islamic values in many fields such as social, political and economics in accordance with their mentality and created a unique system. It does not accept the systems determined and accuses Muslims of such heavy titles as polytheists, unbelievers, hypocrites and tyrants. They see themselves as the only savior and sole representative of the religion of Islam, claiming that the system they have determined in the Islamic geography, where great tragedies are experienced, is a prophetic system. In the name of Islam, the ISIS State has carried out great acts of violence in various parts of the world, targeting Muslims as well. When the ISIS State is analyzed in terms of discourse and action, it reminds of a new Kharijite adapted to the present. In addition, ISIS leader Abū Bakr al-Baghdādī declared his caliphate by re-activating the caliphate, which has a deep-rooted history and historical importance in the Islamic world. This State generally announces its activities to the public through social media. As ISIS is active in many social networks, it also shares written resources such as books, magazines, articles on their own websites.In this study, the birth and development of ISIS, information about the historical roots of ISIS, the basic idea that constitutes the religious understanding of ISIS, the approach to the Qur'ān and hadith will be examined. The main purpose of our study is to conduct research on ISIS's perception of Islam and to evaluate how ISIS's perception of Islam is. Throughout this study, we will investigate where the historical roots of ISIS were based on, how they benefited from Islamic sources while forming their thought system, and what thoughts they determined as references in Islamic history.
Yazar isimleri: ['Adem KARADENİZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: İlahiyat Akademi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ilak/issue/70982/1082386
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2288054
