Makale Başlığı: The new intra-articular calcaneal fracture classification system in term of sustentacular fragment configurations and incorporation of posterior calcaneal facet fractures with fracture components of the calcaneal body
Özet: Background: Existing intra-articular calcaneal fracture classification systems do not consider sustentacular fragment configuration and correlation of posterior calcaneal facet to calcaneal body fractures. So, we developed the new classification system. Methods: The new classification system used sustentacular fragment configuration and association of posterior calcaneal facet fracture with fracture components of calcaneal body as key aspects of main types and subtypes. Between 2000-2014, 126 intra-articular calcaneal fractures were classified according to the new classification system by using computed tomography images. The new classification system was studied in term of reliability, correlation to choices of treatment, implant fixation and quality of fracture reduction.   Results: Types of sustentacular fragment comprised type A, B and C. Type A sustentacular fragment included sustentacular tali containing middle calcaneal facet. Type B and C sustentacular fragment as type A included medial aspect and entire posterior calcaneal facet as a single unit respectively. The fractures with type A, B and C sustentacular fragments were classified as main type A, B and C intra-articular calcaneal fractures. The main type A and B comprised 4 subtypes. Subtypes A1, A3, B1, and B3 associated with avulsion and bending fragments of calcaneal body. Subtype A2, B2, and B4 associated with burst calcaneal body. Subtype B4 was not found in the study. Main type C had no subtype and associated with burst calcaneal body. The data showed good reliability.  Conclusion: The study showed that our new intra-articular calcaneal fracture classification system correlates to choices of treatment, implant fixation and quality of fracture reduction. DOI: 10.3944/AOTT.2016.15.0348This abstract belongs to the un-edited version of the article and is only for informative purposes. Published version may differ from the current version.
Yazar isimleri: ['Thossart Harnroongroj']
Yayın Yılı: 3 Haziran 2016
Dergi ismi: Acta Orthopaedica et Traumatologica Turcica
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aott/issue/18258/192623
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/user/project/new
