Makale Başlığı: IMAGING FINDINGS OF OSTEOID OSTEOMAS IN CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENTS, CT VERSUS MRI: A SINGLE CENTER EXPERIENCE
Özet: Objective: To analyze osteoid osteomas of the pediatric age group, assess the distribution of lesions, and radiological findings, and compare the ability of Computerized Tomography (CT) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) in detecting the tumor.Material and Methods: Forty-four lesions of osteoid osteoma in children and adolescents were retrospectively analyzed using hospital files and institutional picture archiving and communication systems. Age, gender, treatment choices, modality used for diagnosis, tumor site, location within the bone, presence of calcified nidus, perilesional reactive sclerosis, cortical thickening, perilesional bone marrow edema, and joint effusion were documented.Results: Twenty-nine males and 15 females with a median age of 15.00 (range: 4-18 years) were included in the study. All of the lesions were located in the appendicular skeleton. No axial skeletal involvement was found. Forty out of 44 lesions were located in the long bones. One was localized in the patella, 2 of them in the talus and 1 in the calcaneus. Thirty-four out of forty long bone involvement were in lower extremities. Six cases were located intraarticularly and joint effusion was seen in the involved joint. CT was available in all patients and MRI was available in 18 patients. CT was the first choice of cross-sectional imaging modality in 35 patients, and MRI was the first choice in 9 patients. MRI was successful in only 56% of the cases in characterizing osteoid osteomas. CT was accurate to characterize all osteoid osteoma lesions.Conclusion: CT is more successful than MRI in detecting and characterizing osteoid osteomas. Intraarticular osteoid osteoma must be kept in mind in differential diagnosis, evaluating joint synovitis in children and adolescents.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zehra Filiz KARAMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Kırıkkale Üniversitesi Tıp Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kutfd/issue/72091/1036388
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2131386
