Makale Başlığı: The Analysis of Ahmed Pasha’s Gazelles in the Context of Transformation Metaphor
Özet: Metaphor, which is one of the harmonic elements of classical Turkish poetry; to say the word by beautifying the expression and the word and taking the word out of the familiar. The metaphor, which consists of two parts as meta (on)" and "phore", allows you to see the back of the view and transfer what appears behind it differently from the one that appears. At the same time, the metaphor contains the accumulations of a society, culture. Therefore, understanding the metaphor; to understand the world of man, the environment in which he grew up and matured, his accumulations. When looking at the relationship Between metaphor and language, language wants to embody the abstract. That's why he needs metaphors. Language embodies what exists in the mind abstractly with the help of metaphor. In G. and L. Zaltman's transformational metaphor, which we have selected from the seven deep metaphors in the Metaphor Inference Technique, we can follow in the footsteps of this world, the environment and the accumulation. Transformation occurs sometimes in our bodies and sometimes in our souls. This transformation can be with or against our will, or it can be for better or for worse, positive or negative. Human beings enter into a transformation in their creation, and this transformation continues until the end of life. The transformation metaphor can mature gradually or appear suddenly. It is not possible to stop the transformation and the transformation that exists. Transformation is not only a phenomenon that affects mankind, but also affects many living, inanimate beings. The time spent in the hands of change; it transforms man, matter, emotion, thought. In this study, sample verses selected from Ahmed Pasha's gazelles will be examined in the context of transformation metaphor and transformation metaphor will continue to be explained through the examples. Thus, the traces of transformation metaphor will be searched in the verses of Ahmed Pasha, one of the founders of classical Turkish poetry, and the world of metaphors will be presented to your attention.
Yazar isimleri: ['Eda GÜL']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Bitig Edebiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bitigefd/issue/70352/1110092
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2401771
