Makale Başlığı: The Event of Mi‘rāj, Its Possibility and Nature
Özet: Although there are some differences of opinion about the realization of Mi‘rāj  the Islamic Ummah agrees about the realization of this quintessential divine occurrence. Although there are some differences in the narrations about the Mi‘rāj event, which are reported in much of history, the tafsīr literature, and hadith sources, they all point to the confirmation of the event. The denial of Mi‘rāj means the denial of the sound hadiths that constitute a great deal about the event found in the sources. The idea that many of the classical scholars and commentators adopt about the realization of the Mi‘rāj incident is the one emphasizing the soul-body togetherness, which is the most accepted opinion. It is noteworthy that some scholars regarded Mi‘rāj as an event in the world of image (mithāl). According to this, Mi‘rāj is a journey to Ḥaẓīrat al-Quds (divine realm). Shāh Walī Allāh al-Dihlawī’s (d. 1176/1762) characterization of Miʿraj as representative (tamathul) is one of the reasonable interpretations. According to this, Miʿraj is an event that took place in the mithāl realm, meaning a place between the unseen and the physical realm in the dimension of the isthmus (barzakh). It is believed that the interpretation of the events encountered during the journey is necessary as assets and that the events appear as symbols in the exemplary world. It can be said that the event of Adam's creation (as a member of the human species) in paradise, the event that angels prostrated to him in accordance with the divine command and Satan opposed it, and the meeting with Moses and other righteous servants are similar to such an event in terms of conditions and qualities. Mi‘rāj, in the same way, that the throne of Bilqīs comes to the assembly of Solomon in the blink of an eye, is an event that develops rapidly and contains radiance. As a matter of fact, in Islamic culture, the news about the shifting of Abdāl, from place to place, is a Mi‘rāj-style of event, and it is believed that the miracle of Mi‘rāj was inherited by the ummah in this way. There may be rare memories in the lives of other prophets, Islamic saints, and action-minded scholars that science has yet to test. It must be admitted that the Messenger of Allāh (pbuh) saw such rare events that cannot be explained by science such as speaking of the places that his ummah would conquer in the future, or that with tears some of his companions in the mosque in Medina were martyred in the battle of Mu’tah. Again, the fitan hadiths, in which the Messenger of Allāh (pbuh) mentioned and described the destructive activities that would lead to chaos and disrupt the unity of the ummah, such as social turmoil, anarchy, and civil war that will arise in Islamic society due to various religious and political reasons, are among such events. Sufis say that they see the splitting up of the Prophet’s chest and the washing process of his heart, which is the beginning stage of Mi‘rāj, as a dimension of Sufism, and this dimension of the prophet is the perfect form of man. According to this, when a disciple reaches this dimension on the way of Sayr-u Sulūk, they say that his heart will open up to the metaphysical realm and see the divine meanings and truths.In the Mi‘rāj event, Islamic scholars interpreted the fact that Gabriel, who had split open the chest of the Messenger of Allāh (pbuh), washed it three times with Zamzam, and filled it with wisdom and faith ended the journey with the fact that the five times prayer on Muslims became obligatory at this night. This is because prayer necessitates both inner and outer cleanliness. Therefore, it is very noteworthy that Gabriel washed the split chest three times, which establishes the similarity to three times washing in the ablution of the outer organs. The fact that the Messenger of Allāh (pbuh) passed the heavens layer by layer is maintained to have been done so that he could be provided with the information of his ascension to the Most Compassionate step by step. Moreover, so that he would be able to observe the angels of those destinations, the situation of the people whom Allāh loves and who attained those destinations, and be able to learn Allāh’s revelation to them through conversing with them. The fact that five times of prayer a day became obligatory on this journey, that it is fifty times in terms of goodness, that Allāh explained His intention gradually, that the obstacles were defeated, and that Allāh completed His blessing on humanity, are all very well known through the transmission of this journey. In fact, the meaning of the ritual prayer is based on the conversation between Prophet Muḥammad and Prophet Moses, and due to this fact, Moses is intertwined with the ummah in both the belief in the prophets and Islamic legislation.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hayati AYDIN']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Marmara Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/maruifd/issue/70237/1052176
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2170279
