Makale Başlığı: CHILD SOLDIERS OR CHILDREN WHO ARE ABUSED  BY TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS: THE PKK CASE
Özet: The presence of the children in the terrorist organizations should not be considered just only as an aspect of human resource profile, but also what is the meaning of children recruitment in terrorist organizations should be evaluated. A child who is in between infancy and adolescence and does not complete his/her psychological, physical, and mental development does not have the capacity to use and develop systematic violence. Therefore, children are terrorized by naming them as child soldier/combatant.  It is not rational to accept children to be willingly a party to an armed conflict because they do not complete their emotional and physical developments and they are not rational actors. The main problem is that terrorist organizations hide the real situation of children by calling them soldiers/combatants and prevent their real position in terrorist organizations from being understood. Child soldier/combatant conceptualization is the product of a political and cultural discursive construction process. Therefore, the modern-day use of these conceptualizations represents the presupposition of the willing and volunteering of the children, who must be protected because they are highly open to abuse, as a party in armed conflicts. It is necessary to reveal the exploitation and victimization of the children in the armed conflicts through the right use of terms. Because the use of child soldier/combatant terms result with the construction of a discursive cultural violence. Hence, the position of the children in the terrorist organizations should be studied in the context of child abuse not in war/armed conflict context. In this study, the use of child soldier/combatant concepts are opened to discussion and by the methodology of case study, the recruitment, presence, and positions of the children in the PKK terrorist organization is analyzed in the context of international law.
Yazar isimleri: ['Merve ÖNENLİ GÜVEN']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Suçlar ve Tarih
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ustich/issue/72703/1139448
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2521109
