Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Participation in Social Projects on Emphatic Development
Özet: Various studies on empathy have shown that while people are more sensitive to the pain of their own, they are less sensitive to the pain of others. As a result of group solidarity, members of the same group develop stronger empathy towards each other, while ignoring those outside the group. However, this selfish attitude in human nature towards those who do not seem like him can be changed through education. Empathic attitude is critical for human survival as a social individual. The increase in the level of empathy helps individuals to develop their social skills; It contributes to the recovery of aggression and antisocial behavior disorders. The qualitative development of empathy also has a special value for social solidarity and integrity. Empathy education is important in enabling people to think multi-dimensionally and develop different perspectives. In this respect, empathy education should be among the goals of education from the very first stages. In this context, the sociopsychological conditions imposed by modern life in general, and the individualization-enhancing effect of the epidemic period in particular, make it necessary to rethink of empathy education. This study defends the thesis that experience-based (project-based) teaching methods are more effective than classical methods in order to gain and increase the existing level of a quality that has an emotional and cognitive basis, such as empathy. This research aims to show how empathic education can get more efficient results on secondary education level. There are many factors in empathy training and it’s very difficult to achieve this while individualization is increasing day by day. Our research has shown that the experiential learning model is more effective in the development of empathic awareness. İzmir Atatürk High School carried out training activities based on experience with the Best Buddies İnternational association in the 2021-2022 academic year. Best Buddies is an international project that carries out activities related to people with disabilities. This research was carried out to include a group a volunteer students participating in these activities (100 students) and another group (100 students) that did not. “Cambridge Behavior Scale” was used in this study. The Study was applied by following the experimental quantitative research model. According to our research, interacting with ‘individuals with special needs’ and receiving special training about them, make positive contributions to empathic development. Taking into consideration these findings while preparing to curriculum of the institutions that direct the educational processes, will make it easier to reach the goals of the program.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet ÖDEMİŞ', 'Yasin ÇELER']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: İlahiyat Akademi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ilak/issue/70982/1118466
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2435628
