Makale Başlığı: Determining Distance Measurement Accuracy by Pedometer, GNSS and IMU and the New Developed Acceleration Sensor Based Method
Özet: Positioning applications have started to become widespread in recent years with the acquisition of the ability of mobile phones to determine location. While generally GNSS and positioning methods are used, as a result of the GNSS system not working efficiently in closed areas, efforts have been made to develop other methods for position determination. The basic working principle of these methods is to establish common local networks and to determine the location by measuring distances with these local networks. For this, Bluetooth, wireless networks and signals with different frequencies, ultrasonic signals, RFID modules working with radio frequencies, etc. systems are used. Both real-time data can be produced and the generated data can be saved and stored on servers and then offered to users. According to the technology used, data with high and medium position accuracy can be obtained. However, due to the high cost of these systems due to the need for networking and the inability to produce results in open areas, IMU-based only distance measuring solutions have been created, especially in sports applications. In the presented article, methods and filters have been developed for obtaining distance measurement, which is the basis of position determination, with high accuracy using only the acceleration sensor. The obtained results have compared with other distance measuring methods and the actual distance. The developed filters have been developed to prevent false step detection, filter static movements, and generally calculate the correct distance by reducing the noise of the acceleration sensor, based on variable stride length detection and distance measurement calculation. The amount of error reached 60% in the distance obtained with the acceleration sensor without using filters, the amount of error decreased below 2% with the developed method. These results clearly showed that the developed method can be used for distance measurement and sub-meter position determination.
Yazar isimleri: ['Uğur ACAR']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Innovative Engineering Applications
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijiea/issue/70503/1079781
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2277706
