Makale Başlığı: HOMOPHOBIA AS A PRACTICE OF EXCLUSION INCONTEMPORARY TURKISH PLAYWRITING
Özet: The term homophobia, defined by Weinberg in the 1960s, is an issue that has been studied inpsychology, sociology and law. Today, homophobia, which is defined as an exclusion practice of gender-baseddiscrimination, has been studied in different fields with its effects and consequences, as well as in the field oftheatre, and experiences, results, oppression and exclusion practices in this context have been brought to thestage. The traces of plays that deal with homophobia in European and American theater begin to be seen in the1930s, but it is necessary to wait for the 1960s for texts that deal with homophobia in a striking way. In Turkishplaywriting, it is only possible to come across plays that deal with homophobia after 2000. So, in what contextswere homophobic attitudes and behaviors handled in Turkish theater after 2000? What are the domination andresistance practices regarding homophobia in these texts? The aim of our study is to answer these questionsand to present with examples how the theme of gender-based discrimination and homophobia was handledin Turkish playwriting after 2000. Among the plays written after 2000, 12 plays were selected by consideringthe criteria of handling homophobia, staging and publishing. The plays were examined in the context of thetheoretical ground of homophobia, and it was seen that they could be categorized under three headings:Self-Exclusion of the Individual, Social Exclusion Due to Heteronormativity and Exclusion from Public Spaces interms of handling the subject. As a result, the playwrights see homophobia as a form of exclusion that must beovercome; In some plays, while a resistance strategy was produced, it was observed that an accepting attitudewas displayed in others. It has been seen that some of the writers who produce resistance try to overcomehomophobia through comedy, while others try to overcome it with tragic elements.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ezgi UZUNDEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 22 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Sanat ve Tasarım Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sanattasarim/issue/70459/1133864
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2499356
