Makale Başlığı: The Pattern of Relations Between School Efficiency, School Image, Teacher Performance and Academic Success
Özet: The aim of this study is to examine the relationship pattern between teachers' school effectiveness, school image perceptions, performance and students' academic achievement. Relational survey design, one of the quantitative research models, was used in the research. The population of the research consists of teachers working in public secondary schools in Maltepe district of Istanbul, and the sample consists of 471 teachers working in public secondary schools affiliated to İstanbul/Maltepe District Directorate of National Education and selected by cluster sampling method. The data were obtained by using the Information Form, the "Effective School Teacher and Administrator Scale", the "Corporate Image Scale" and the "Individual Performance Scale". As academic success, the 2020-2021 academic year LGS scores of the public schools in Maltepe District are taken. Before the analysis, it was decided that the data showed normal distribution by performing normality tests. In the study, t test, correlation analysis and regression analyzes were performed. As a result of the analysis, it was seen that the performances, school effectiveness and school image perceptions of the teachers working in schools with LGS scores above the average were significantly higher than the teachers working in schools with LGS scores below the average. A high level and positive relationship was found between teachers' school effectiveness and school image perceptions. It has been determined that there is a moderate and positive significant relationship between teachers' performances and school image. Finally, when the effectiveness and image of the school and the performance of the teacher were evaluated together, it was concluded that only the image of the school significantly predicted the academic achievement, and the image of the school was a strong factor that predicted the academic success of the students.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kayahan DALBUDAK', 'Mustafa ÖZGENEL']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Nisan 2022
Dergi ismi: Çağdaş Yönetim Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cybd/issue/69682/1088692
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2313259
