Makale Başlığı: Investigation of the Relationship Between Depression, Anxiety, Stress and Future Anxiety by Canonical Correlation Analysis
Özet: This study analyzes the relationship between depression, anxiety, stress; and negative emotions and expectations about the future, loss of motivation and hopelessness. Relational survey model was used in the research. 236 male and 302 female between the ages of 20-40 participated in the study.  The mean age of the participants was 29.28±7.32. Personal information form, Depression-Anxiety-Stress Scale and Beck Hopelessness Scale were given to participants via online. The relationship between the data sets was examined by Canonical Correlation Analysis. Findings show that young adults have high levels of depression and anxiety; and moderate levels of stress and future anxiety. There is a moderately significant relationship between variable data sets. When depression, anxiety and stress level decrease, negative feelings and expectations about the future, loss of motivation and hopelessness, also decrease. Depression in the Set-1 variable data set, negative emotions and expectations about the future in the Set-2 variable data set are the most predictive variables both for their own set and the other data set. The ratio of Set-1 dataset to Set-2 data set is 46.2%; the ratio of Set-2 data set to Set-1 data set is 35.6%. Based on the findings, it is concluded that protective, preventive and rehabilitative mental health services are important to reduce the depression, anxiety, stress levels and future anxiety of young people. In addition to psychiatrists and psychologists, psychiatric social workers can also play a supporting role in mental health services.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet TÜRK', 'Meral ÖZTÜRK', 'Veda BİLİCAN GÖKKAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Kıbrıs Türk Psikiyatri ve Psikoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ktppdergisi/issue/72722/1081849
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2285786
