Makale Başlığı: Determination of germination temperatures of White mustard (Sinapis alba L.)
Özet: White mustard (Sinapis alba L.) is one of the two important species in Turkey in the Sinapis genus belonging to the Brassicaceae family. It is a weed found in agricultural areas in weed surveys conducted in our country in recent years. This study was carried out with the seeds of White mustard (S. alba L.) randomly collected from the fields of Manisa province in 2019, and the minimum, optimum and maximum germination temperatures of the seeds of this weed species were determined. The experiment was carried out in Malatya Turgut Özal University, Faculty of Agriculture, Department of Plant Protection, Herbology laboratory in 2022. In laboratory studies, temperatures of 2, 5. 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35 and 40 °C were used to determine the appropriate germination temperatures of White mustard seeds. Experiments were set up with 4 replications and repeated 2 times. As a result of the study, it was determined that the minimum, optimum and maximum germination temperatures of White mustard seeds were 5 °C, 20-25 °C and 35 °C, respectively. Since the results were parallel to each other, the average of the two trials was taken into consideration. As a result, due to global warming, White mustard weed species cause problems in cultivated plants and can increase population density in important cultivated plants if they are not controlled. Seed biology is important in the control of the White mustard species, and the findings revealed the germination abilities of the White mustard species at appropriate temperatures. In addition, it is thought that this study will shed light on other studies to be done with White mustard in the coming years.
Yazar isimleri: ['Olcay BOZDOĞAN']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Iğdır Üniversitesi Fen Bilimleri Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jist/issue/73493/1150561
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2564128
