Makale Başlığı: Islahiye District in the Ottoman Provincial Yearbooks from its Establishment to the Early 20th Century (1865-1902)
Özet: In the civil administration, the place under the administration of the district governor is called a kaza(district). Islahiye District was established in 1865 on historical routes that connected countries in ancient times. This new district emerged as a result of the resettlement activities of the Fırka-i Islahiye. While it was affiliated to the Maraş Sanjak since its establishment, it was included in the borders of the newly established Cebel-i Bereket Sanjak in 1879. This change in administrative structure is due to security concerns. The district used to have two districts and two sub-districts. In 1868, the number of neighborhoods increased to three and the number of sub-districts to six. Its neighborhoods are Delikanlu, Çelikanlı and Çerkes. Its districts are Okçu İzzeddinlü, Şıhlar, Keferdiz, Karayiğitli, Delikanlu and Çelikhanlı. The village names of İslahiye District can also be determined from the yearbooks. Over time, the number of villages increased from 60 to 68. The names of state institutions and employees in İslahiye are also included in the provincial yearbooks.The mountainous parts of İslahiye are covered with forests and the flat areas are a wide plain. There was a river called Karasu in the district, a leech lake in Keller (Fevzipaşa), and a hot spring in the Karayiğitli township. Barracks, mosques, schools, shops, mills, bakeries and coffeehouses were built in the newly created district. In the mentioned settlement, the Muslim population is around 97% and the rate of non-Muslims is less than 3%. Although the tribes of Fırka-i Islahiye were settled, it is understood that the tribes of Delikanlu and Çelikanlı in İslahiye had difficulties in adopting a settled life. The state tried to tie them to the land with permanent residences. There were shrines of Muslim people in the town. Especially the tomb of Hz Ukkaşe, who is a companion, is important. Carpets, rugs, prayer rugs, sackcloth, timber, oil and tar produced in Islahiye District were sold to the surrounding cities. The tribes kept a large number of cattle. Various cereals were grown in Islahiye, which has a fertile plain. However, agricultural production could not be reached to the desired point. Rice, wheat, barley etc. products could only meet local needs. The leech extracted from the small lake in Keller was sold in the surrounding cities.
Yazar isimleri: ['Osman KARLANGIÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Tarih ve Gelecek Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jhf/issue/72784/1171340
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2633947
