Makale Başlığı: SOCIO-CULTURAL FACTORS IN THE RECESSION OF THE ARABIC LANGUAGE
Özet: This study is based on the assumption that the underdevelopment or stagnation crisis that the Arabic language has experienced in the last few hundred years is part of the problem of underdevelopment, a more general problem affecting the entire Arab world. The Arabic language will not be able to get out of this crisis without a solution one way or another. It is possible to classify the backwardness of the Arabs in language and thought into five main categories. Fixed-mindedness, this phenomenon is most evident in evaluating things. Any attempt to criticize the work done will be immediately rejected by the Arab mindset. Fixed-mindedness manifests itself in not accepting criticism, it is possible to encounter different shades of fixed-mindedness. Emotional thinking, which is like a consequence of the previous trait. The natural benefits of having this thought, not obeying justice, following whims, plus impulsiveness and improvisation, are branching out. Self-centered thinking or ego inflation should also be counted among the traits that directly affect language and thought negatively. Opportunism, opportunism and dictatorship emerge as a result. Intellectual conspiracy, this feature appears as surrendering to conspiratorial thinking, blaming others, being indifferent to the importance of issues, lack of self-sacrifice and lack of creative thinking. Superficial thinking, this opens the door to other issues. Among them, narrow-mindedness, shallow thinking, limitation of movement, neglecting quality and giving importance to quantity, appear as concrete thinking and instinctive thinking. In this study, we will try to examine these negative effects of the collective Arab mind, their manifestations and their reflections on Arabic education. We will offer practical suggestions for the improvement of teaching Arabic to foreigners, especially Arabs, and the development of Arabic language research.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nurullah ŞENTÜRK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Erciyes Akademi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/erciyesakademi/issue/72599/1149552
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2560428
