Makale Başlığı: Ahmed Fuad Baturay and Urfa Governorship (1924-1928)
Özet: In this study, the life of Ahmed Fuad Baturay and the governorship period of about five years of Urfa governorship will be examined. In the first years of the Republic, while the administration and status of the Urfa Province is determined, the role of the governor will also be emphasized. In the years when the new regime was being tried to establish, a governor who could be in office for about 5 years is likely to have been seen successful. In the paper, documents of the Ottoman Archives and the Archives of the Ministry of Interior will be taken as basis.Urfa was one of the three sancaks of Aleppo Province (Aleppo, Marash and Urfa) at the beginning of the twentieth century. In 1914, Urfa had become an autonomous sancak with five kazas under its administration, Urfa, Birecik, Rakka, Suruç, and Harran. Following the end of the National Struggle, all attached or independent sancaks were converted into vilayets. Thus, Urfa won the province status. These days, except for the central district, Birecik, Suruç and Harran districts were formed. The importance of governors is great in the first years of the National Struggle and the Republic. After the struggle with the invaders, they dealt with the difficulties faced by the new regime. Ismail Izzet Bey was in the governor of Urfa in 1923, when the Republic was proclaimed. After Ismail Izzet Bey's appointment on March 9, 1924, Ahmed Fuad Bey was appointed instead. In this mission, which started on March 30, 1924, it remained for about 4 years and 7 months until October 21, 1928. He previously served in various district governorships. After having been a property inspector for a while, he was appointed to the governor of Urfa. He then served in the governorships of Tekirdağ, Manisa, Kastamonu and Antalya.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nejdet BİLGİ']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Tarih İncelemeleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/egetid/issue/71401/1148701
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2557224
