Makale Başlığı: Profiles of non-geography educated academic staff in the geography departments
Özet: The rapid developments in the production of information have caused prominent specializationin geography, as in many other fields. The increasing number of new geography departmentshas increased the need for geographers specialized in the sub-branches of geography. However,since the number of trained staff with doctoral degrees is not sufficient, this need in geographydepartments is met by the graduates of undergraduate and graduate programs in fields otherthan geography. In this study, the undergraduate, master’s, and doctoral programs that theacademic staff in 46 geography departments providing formal education graduated from wereexamined, and the distribution of staff who graduated from programs in different fields amongall academic staff was identified. In addition, the articles and projects of the academic staff’snon-university resources were also evaluated. Accordingly, the proportion of the academicstaff who received education in different fields, including geography/social sciences education,and working in geography departments was found to be 35.9% at the undergraduate level,18.4% at the master’s level, and 14.9% at the doctoral level. 24 academic staffs graduatedfrom 14 non-geography programs take part in the geography programs of 17 differentuniversities. Geological engineering department leads the way with 12 faculty membersamong 14 non-geography programs. Academic staffs who graduated from the geography/social sciences education program are in the geography programs of 35 different universities.It was revealed that academic staff who graduated from non-geography programs fields otherthan geography/social sciences education were mostly working in universities established after2000 or departments that had just started to accept students, and a major part of them wereworking in the physical geography department. Academic staff who graduated geography/social sciences education and were working in geography departments were working in oldand newly founded departments, in both physical and human geography departments.
Yazar isimleri: ['İhsan ÇİÇEK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Coğrafya Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tcd/issue/69891/1068033
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2231982
