Makale Başlığı: THE CONCEPT OF FAMILY, DEFINITION AND SCOPE OF FAMILY IN ISLAMIC AND TURKISH LAW
Özet: It is generally assumed that the meaning of words that people use too much is known by everyone. However, defining of words that everyone uses often are more difficult. Because it has various connections with many fields of science and each branch of science develops a definition from its own point of view and when the common usage is included in this, the issue gets a little more complicated. The word family is one of these words. There is something that touches everyone. Due to this, when the family is mentioned, different meanings are given from society to society, and people can also have different meanings.The branches of science dealing with the family also make definitions from their own perspectives. Family is one of the main areas of interest of various branches of science, as well as one of the main regulation areas of law. Turkish Constitution, which accepts the "family as the foundation of Turkish society", has assigned the duty of protecting this to the state. For this reason, it is important to define the family and determine its scope. In this article, what the word family means in terms of law is examined in terms of Islamic law and Turkish law.While doing this, first of all, the root of the word "family", the use and development of those who wrote about it, which words and terms are used to express the family were examined; Then, its scopes in both legal and Islamic law were determined, then the definitions of family according to Islamic law and Turkish law were examined, its missing and more aspects were shown and a definition was tried to be developed based on the provisions in Islamic law. Since it is our field, the subject has been basically studied in terms of Islamic law.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İstanbul Medeniyet Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/imhfd/issue/72794/1182048
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2679368
