Makale Başlığı: The inherent right to life and live, must ensure to the maximum extent for the survival and development of the child / preterm infant
Özet: Right to Life and to be in life, Right to Live, concepts must be evaluated from ethicalconsiderations, thus, at such principles, the discussions are below.The subjects be under such headings.A) Interest, attention, relevance, bearing on grounded on love. Medicine is under thehumanistic perspectives so love to human is the Fundemantal aspect. People is also arepresentative of a Human being, so be in humanity.B) Knowledge be upon science. Information be at active benefit, keeping from harm,compulsory at medicine for science conception. Advice, guiding and be indicating asconsultant is differs with responsibility. Not be together science fiction, phantasies orbelieves or so on. Evidence be on truth, not on liar or faults. Rejection is the righteousact as physician and even the patient if not be valuable to them.C) Each person is unique and special. Medical application is upon the individualacceptance. So, following is essential at intensive care unit, as near life preterm infants.Not considered as a number at statistics, because they are a human.D) Ethics be the principles of actions. Primum non nocere is the first code.E) Education at the medicine is lifelong, each preterm is an educator. Profession isessential, as Neonatology. First confrontation as question, then recent referencesearching, decision a verdict, thus, be differentiated according the reactions. Eachdecision be an innovation to be suitable at the patient.F) Physicians are at legal concept and they are advocate of a preterm infant. Medicatreatment is a duty and action of certified and educated team. Be away of crime and ifany estimations be pass judgment to legal perspective.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 19 Mayıs 2020
Dergi ismi: Türk Dünyası Uygulama ve Araştırma Merkezi Yenidoğan Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/estudamyenidogan/issue/54479/742135
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1117915
