Makale Başlığı: FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF REAL ESTATE COMPANIES TRADED ON BORSA ISTANBUL THROUGH RATIOS AND GENERAL EVALUATION OF THE SECTOR
Özet: In order to examine the situation of the real estate sector, which is seen as the driving force of the economy, in terms of both the pandemic and the economic crisis in the current years, it was evaluated in terms of short-term financial risk, financial structure, efficiency and profitability by applying ratio analysis according to the financial statements of real estate companies traded in BIST. and it is aimed to give an idea to the researchers on this subject. and it is aimed to give an idea to the researchers on this subject.As a result, it can be stated that the short-term liquidity risks of EDİP Gayrimenkul and Yeşil Yapı are high, but the short-term financial risk of the real estate sector in general is low. For the financial structures of real estate companies, it can be said that all real estate companies, except for DAP Gayrimenkul and EDIP Gayrimenkul, have a very good share of their equity in total debt and equity in total assets. One of the most important ratios in the analysis of the efficiency of the companies through sales is the asset turnover rate. Looking at the asset turnover rate, İHLAS Gayrimenkul, Yeşil Yapı, KUYAŞ Investment and ENKA İnşaat sees that the asset turnover rate increased, but not at a sufficient level, due to the fact that the increases in net sales of 100% and above between 2019/2021, especially as they approach 2021. The reason for this is that the asset amounts are much higher than the net sales amounts. In EDIP Gayrimenkul and DAP Gayrimenkul, on the other hand, it is decreasing due to the fact that the increase in assets is much higher than the net sales, especially in 2021. Looking at the averages of the real estate companies examined in terms of profitability ratios, it is seen that the net sales profitability was negative in 2019 and 2020, but increased to 0.31 in 2021. It is seen that the return on equity is negative, but it came to 0.46 in 2021, but it should be reminded that this is due to the lack of equity. Return on equity, on the other hand, increased from negative averages to positive results and to 0.07 in 2021.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ş. Sertaç ÇAKI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Business Innovation and Governance
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jobig/issue/70975/1133572
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2498140
