Makale Başlığı: Çağdaş Batı Literatüründe Kur’ân Metnine Yaklaşımlar -Metin Bütünlüğü Arayışları- yazar Ersin Kabakcı (Ankara: Fecr Yayınları, 1. Baskı, 2020), 340 Sayfa, ISBN 9786257879149. Approaches to the Qur‟anic Text in the Contemporary Western Literature: The Se-archings for the Unity of the Text author Ersin Kabakcı (Ankara: Fercr Publications. 1. Edition, 2020), 340 page, ISBN 9786257879149.
Özet: The Qur’anic text has been analyzed from its descent to nowadays. In this context, the nature of Qur’ān and its text have been interpreted not only by Muslims but also by non-Muslims as well. Especially, it is known that these interpretations have gained momentum with the acceleration of scientific developments since the last few centuries. Another factor in the acceleration of the quantity of the interpretations of the Qur'an is the developments in the value judgments of societies in the literary and sociological sense. Western societies were naturally affected by this situation. When the academic literature in our country is examined, it has been observed that there has not been a large-scale study on the reflections of the Qur’anic interpretations in Western literature. The book “Approaches to the Qur'anic Text in the Contemporary Western Literature: The Searchings for the Unity of the Text” written by Ersin Kabakcı is a study aiming to fill the need in this academic field. In the first part of the work, which consists of three main parts, subjects such as the nature of historical criticism, the nature of the criticism of the style and thematic of the Qur'anic text, and the comments on the chronological arrangement of the Qur'an have been tried to be discussed in a wide range. In the second part, the theoretical and methodological foundations of the search for text integrity in the Holy Quran and Western classics are discussed. In the third chapter, the discourse of "search for text integrity", which has been the most emphasized since the beginning of the book, has been tried to be processed with examples.
Yazar isimleri: ['Halil İbrahim TEKİN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Tefsir Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tader/issue/73215/1058396
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2194395
