Makale Başlığı: A SURVEY ON AROMATHERAPY KNOWLEDGE AND PRACTICES IN PHARMACIES
Özet: Aromatherapy is one of the feautred complementary treatment methods for good and natural life. The popularityof aromatherapy in our country has been in creasing in recent years and pharmacies are the safets way to Accessaromatherapy. With this study, it was aimed to evaluate the data collected about the aromatherapy approach ofparticipants who applied to pharmacies for aromatherapy, including their past aromatherapy experiences, theprocess of aromatherapy and after. Within the scope of the study, a survey was conducted with participants whoapplied for aromatherapy to 2 pharmacies in Istanbul between May 2020 -June 2020, which made intensivearomatherapy applications. The information obtained in the study was evaluated using the SPSS analysisprogram and various analysis methods. It was found that the vast majority of 85 patients participating in thestudy were between the ages of 20-40, 64 were women and 21 were men. As a result of the study, it was sent hatthe most common reasons for applying to aromatherapy are the symptoms which are related to colds, acnetreatment, hair problems and wound spot treatment. It was determined that the most commonly used essential oilwas lavender essential oil. It was seen that 50% of the patients in the survey heard about aromatherapy frompharmacists and doctors, who were health care professionals, and the other 50% from social media and closeenvironment sources, and 69,4% of these patients applied to aromatherapy believing in its therapeutic power. Itwas found that 63.5% of the participants who applied to aromatherapy did research before using the products.The rate of participants who stated that the products used were beneficial was 57%, the rate of participants whopartially benefited was 39%, and the rate of participants who stated that theydid not benefit was 4%. It is sent hatparticipants resort to aromatherapy for a wide variety of ailments. When the participants were asked about thesource of aromatherapy, pharmacist answers were mostly given. As a result of the study, it was found thatparticipants benefit greatly from aromatherapy and can recommend aromatherapy to their environment. At thesame time, the rate of side effects of aromatherapy appears to be low in the participants who participated in thestudy.
Yazar isimleri: ['Eda GEDİK', 'Emine AKALIN']
Yayın Yılı: 17 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Gazi Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gsbdergi/issue/72094/1008038
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2020336
