Makale Başlığı: Determination of the Effect of Work Stress on Burnout in Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation Department Employees After Epidemics and Application in Istanbul Private Rehabilitation Centers
Özet: Work stress and burnout in co-workers with COVID-19 and Delta variant are situations that they have experienced in their professional lives. In this study, the effects of epidemic diseases, work stress and burnout syndrome, which affect societies deeply, on physiotherapy and rehabilitation department employees are examined. The aim of the study is that the new coronavirus disease (COVID-19), which has been threatening human health in the world and in our country recently, continues to spread and pose a serious threat. In this process, health workers who fulfill their duties are trying to provide health services under a great risk. In our study, it is to evaluate the working conditions of physiotherapists, who are among the health workers who are doing their duties during COVID-19, which is at the size of a pandemic. The aim of this study is to define the problems and risks faced by physiotherapists in their working conditions and to investigate the effect of work stress and burnout syndrome, which they have to overcome, on the effect of psychology on employees' proforma. The universe of the study consists of special education and rehabilitation centers in the European side of Istanbul. Data were collected from the private education institutions association and the Istanbul rehabilitation centers association. A total of 876 physiotherapists work in 292 special education and rehabilitation centers. According to the results of the review, the work stress levels of the physiotherapists were found to be high. There is a difference in the perception of job stress in terms of demographic variables. It has been observed that there is a significant relationship between job stress and burnout. Feelings of burnout, stagnation, and poor performance are all affected by job stress. There is a positive significant relationship between job stress and burnout levels. The results were analyzed and some recommendations were made.
Yazar isimleri: ['Deniz SÖNMEZ', 'Fuat ÇAĞLAYAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Hukuk ve Sosyal Bilim Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/uhusbad/issue/68293/1007534
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2018396
