Makale Başlığı: Our Surgical Treatment Results in Rare Malign Stomach Tumors
Özet: Stomach cancers are still an important disease due to their prevalence and high mortality. The most common histopathological subtype is adenocancers. Detection of rare gastric cancers may require clinical suspicion and additional tests. In this study, gastrectomy was performed; It is aimed to present the clinical and surgical treatment results of 22 gastric cancer patients with a rare histopathological diagnosis in the light of literature. The files of patients, who underwent gastrectomy for malignant reasons between January 2011-October 2020 in our center, were retrospectively reviewed. Twenty-two patients with rare histopathological diagnosis and available data were included in the study. The files of the patients were examined retrospectively, and information on age, gender, gastroscopy findings, gastroscopic biopsy, surgical procedure, additional examination, pathology reports, tumor diameter, follow-up time, recurrence and mortality information were recorded. Twenty-two patients, 11 males, 11 females, were included in the study. The mean age of the patients was 53 (0.3-108). Of the four patients who had no malignancy in their biopsies, two were operated after EUS, one PET-CT, one after suspected malignancy in MR findings. Of the patients, 12 were GIST, five were neuroendocrine tumors, two were non-Hodkin lymphoma, two were leiomyosarcoma, and one were squamous cell carcinoma. The mean follow-up time was 36 (0.3-108) months. Additional imaging and management by centers with high experience are important in order not to miss possible rare gastric cancers in gastric lesions.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ramazan GÜNDOĞDU', 'Hakan YABANOĞLU', 'Serkan ERKAN', 'Murat KUŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 24 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Muğla Sıtkı Koçman Üniversitesi Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/muskutd/issue/72262/863350
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1517014
