Makale Başlığı: PARENTING OF GIFTED CHILDREN AND BEING GIFTED IN EARLY CHILDHOOD: PARENTAL VIEWS
Özet: Gifted children have different developmental progression in early childhood. Parents, who are the best observers of children from birth, have a very important role in detecting this developmental difference. Based on this information in the literature, the aim of this study is to determine what kind of developmental process gifted children follow in early childhood according to family observations and what their families have expectations and needs from early childhood. The research was carried out in case study design, one of the qualitative research methods. While determining the study group of the study, one of the purposeful sampling methods, easy accessibility sampling method was used. The working group of the research is composed of the parents of 19 gifted students who attend secondary schools affiliated to İzmir Provincial Directorate of National Education in 2019-2020 academic year. Thirteen mothers and 6 fathers participated in the study. Participants' ages are between 35 and 53. The data obtained as a result of the interview were analyzed using the descriptive analysis technique. According to the results of the study, the different developing characteristics of gifted children in the preschool period; learning motivation and curiosity, self-learning, having interests, creativity, advanced cognitive skills, advanced language skills, advanced motor skills and different personality traits. It was seen that it was in the form of questions and questions for abstract concepts. It has been observed that the language and psychomotor development of gifted children are mostly advanced compared to their peers and the subjects that these children are curious about are generally science and technology, literacy and art. It is concluded that this situation varies by adding mathematics, adulthood skills, and social relations in the primary school period. The most common problems experienced by parents; problems with the child, anxiety about not being able to support enough, educational processes and criticism from the environment. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Selvihan EROĞLU GARİP', 'Filiz KARADAĞ', 'Vesile YILDIZ DEMİRTAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 6 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Trakya Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/trakyasobed/issue/70085/885478
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1596811
