Makale Başlığı: Effect of Self-Efficacy and Selected Factors on the Quality of Life After Bariatric Surgery
Özet: Background: Bariatric surgery has important effects on physiological and psychosocial health as well as being effective in losing weight. One of these effects is on quality of life. Objective: To examine the effect of self-efficacy and selected factors on quality of life after bariatric surgery. Method: The research is a cross-sectional, descriptive and predictive type of research. The research sample consisted of 103 patients who underwent bariatric surgery. Data were collected between September 2018 and July 2019 using the sociodemographic characteristics form, the Effect of Weight on Quality-of-Life Scale, and the Self-Efficacy Scale. Results: The mean age of the patients was 33.70 ± 8.13, and the time elapsed after surgery was 9.64 ± 5.22 months. Sleeve gastrectomy was performed for all patients. The effect of weight on the qualityof- life scale total mean score of the patients 75.12 ± 20.14; The total score average of the Self-Efficacy Scale was 51.25 ± 6.57. When the factors affecting the patients' quality of life were examined, the model was found to be significant. The variables included in the model explain 52% of the patients' quality of life. It was found that the elapsed time after the operation (β: -0.653, p = 0.000) significantly and negatively predicted the quality of life. Conclusion: The patients' quality of life was found to be moderate and their self-efficacy to be low. It was found that self-efficacy had no effect on quality of life in patients. It was found that the quality of life of the patients decreased as the time elapsed after bariatric surgery increased. It is recommended that nurses and team members follow up patients for long periods after surgery in order to increase the quality of life after surgery.
Yazar isimleri: ['Özgül KARAYURT', 'Aylin DURMAZ EDEER', 'Yaprak SARIGÖL ORDİN', 'Kübra YASAK', 'Eda Ayten KANKAYA', 'Filiz ÖĞCE']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Hemşirelik Fakültesi Elektronik Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/deuhfed/issue/71208/875735
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1560799
