Makale Başlığı: Route Optimization in the Collection of Recycling Wastes: An Application in Alanya District
Özet: In this study, information about the recycling activities, which are among the reverse logistics activities, was given and the studies in Alanya were mentioned.The recycling studies carried out by Alanya Municipality were examined and it was aimed to provide the minimum fuel cost by arranging the routes of the Alanya Recycling Facility due to the high fuel prices encountered in these studies. Within the scope of the study, the routes of the Alanya Recycling Facility, which works under the supervision of Alanya Municipality, were examined and investigations were made within the framework of the vehicle routing problem. Geographical information systems have been used in order to collect the wastes in the regions where the enterprise serves as soon as possible. With the vehicle routing problem, first the current route determination and then the improved route have emerged. In order to determine the current route, the order of the waste collection centers, the coordinates of these points and the distances between them were determined by using online maps. With the geographic information systems application, the existing route was improved. The decreases in the distance traveled by the vehicles have been examined. During the study, the coordinate information of the waste collection points and the total distance traveled were found using geographic information systems. The collection points found via map application were entered into the geographic information systems application, respectively, and the amount of waste, time and distance data were entered for each point. At the end of the study, improved routes obtained with geographic information systems applicaition and comparison of existing routes are included. The amount of savings in the amount of fuel the business has obtained as a result has been determined.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet GÜMÜŞ', 'Emir Hüseyin ÖZDER', 'Elif HATINOĞLU', 'Ayşe UÇAR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Turkish Operations Management
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jtom/issue/70951/1025875
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2089865
