Makale Başlığı: Analysis of the Cognitive Levels of the Pre-service Primary Teachers’ Questions on Fractions According to the Revised Bloom Taxonomy
Özet: Bloom's Taxonomy is important in the creation of educational objectives and measurement and assessment activities. In this context, it is important for teachers and prospective teachers to know the Renewed Bloom Taxonomy and to be able to use it in learning-teaching processes. In this study, it is aimed to examine the pre-service primary abilities to prepare questions for the cognitive process categories of the Revised Bloom Taxonomy. 81 pre-service primary teachers’ studying in the 3rd grade participated in this descriptive study. Within the scope of the study, pre-service primary teachers were asked to prepare a question for each cognitive process category of the Revised Bloom Taxonomy on fractions. The pre-service primary teachers’ questions were analyzed in terms of their cognitive levels, and it was determined whether they could prepare the right questions for the targeted category or not. As a result of the research, it was determined that pre-service primary teachers’ were able to prepare the right questions for the categories of remember and understand, which are the lower categories of the Revised Bloom Taxonomy, and they had difficulty in preparing questions for the upper categories. In addition, only half of the pre-service primary teachers were able to prepare the right questions for the application level. However, few pre-service teachers could prepare the right questions for the more complex categories of analyze, evaluate and create. At the end of these results, it has been suggested that different types of activities can be organized by experts in field education courses in order to improve the skills of pre-service primary teachers in preparing questions according to the Revised Bloom Taxonomy.
Yazar isimleri: ['Özlem ÖZÇAKIR SÜMEN', 'Hamdi KARAKAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Cumhuriyet Uluslararası Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://cije.cumhuriyet.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/72802/1031758
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2112608
