Makale Başlığı: The Foundations Of Charisma In Religious Groups: The Case Of Galip Kuşçuoğlu
Özet: Religion is one of the most important phenomena in the history of mankind. Religion is visible in social life through theoretical, practical and sociological forms of expression. The ability to form a religious group is a form of expression from a sociological point of view. Tariqas that have emerged as subgroups within the main religious structure of Islam are one of the most important religious groupings. Looking at the Islamic tradition of Sufism and Tariqas, it seems that a religious leader is at the head of each tariqa. It is a fact that religious leaders, have created effects on tariqas’ understanding of religion, rituals and followers, with their characteristics of a purely personal nature. Max Weber expresses this power of influence seen in religious groups with the concept of charisma. So, this study focuses on the foundation of charisma in religious groups based on the case of Galip Kuşçuoğlu. The research started with a literature review. Before the field research, sermon videos, website, promotional materials prepared by the order were examined. Afterwards, a field survey was carried out in Mamak district of Ankara Province. In this context, interviews were held with Galip Kuşçuoğlu and his followers. The activities and rituals of the Galibity Tariqa were followed through participant observation and information was gathered. Thus, it has been tried to reveal which arguments Galip Kuşçuoğlu based his charisma on in the Islamic Sufism and Tariqa tradition. As a result, it was determined that Kuşçuoğlu, the leader of Galibilik, based his charisma on elements such as silsila, karāma, ilm el batin, wasila and dreams.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ismail PARLAMİS']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Balıkesir İlahiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/baid/issue/70440/1065985
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2224157
