Makale Başlığı: INVESTIGATION OF QUEER SPACE PRODUCTION THROUGH FILMS
Özet: Queer theory has been a powerful theory that does not fit into certain definitions, but has been intertwined with and influenced many disciplines since the first years it came to the fore. The relationship between queer theory and space, which has a relationship with some concepts as well as disciplines, has created the understanding of queer space. This understanding of space creates a concept with different approaches and definitions of many different people who do not have a clear definition. The spaces of queer films, under the definitions of queer cinema arising from the relationship of the queer concept with cinema, are examined from the perspective of queer space. The queer people's energies and perceptions have been analyzed to transform the variable space into a queer space through films. Since it is not possible to talk about a design understanding in the concept of queer space, spaces have been interpreted in line with the relationship and experiences of queer individuals with space. The films selected within the scope of the study are Climax (2018) and The Danish Girl (2015). In order to define and examine queer spaces correctly, first of all, literature research and scanning of the subject was carried out, and then the selected works were first watched and then interpreted with the method of semiotics. In this study, it is aimed to be a source for studies on the production of queer space, queer theory, queer space, queer cinema and architecture-interior architecture disciplines. As a result of the study, it was concluded that it is possible to produce the production of queer space through films, and the spaces of queer films or films containing queer individuals are also queer spaces.
Yazar isimleri: ['Harun GÜLMEZ']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Tasarım Mimarlık ve Mühendislik Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dae/issue/73099/1132977
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2495727
