Makale Başlığı: A Suitability Analysis Study for the Süleymaniye Winter Tourism Center (Gümüşhane)
Özet: Before making tourism investments, it is important to carry out suitability analyzes by considering natural and human characteristics, in order to prevent waste of resources and wrong land use. In this study, a suitability analysis was carried out for the Suleymaniye Winter Tourism Center, which is planned to be established in the city of Gümüşhane, in line with the geographical characteristics of the region. Gümüşhane City is located in the inner part of the Eastern Black Sea Region, and Süleymaniye District is located on the eastern slope of Tenceli Hill in Gümüşhane city center. Within the scope of the study, it is aimed to determine the situation in the field of the parameters affecting the winter tourism activities and to offer suggestions for sustainable tourism based on the findings. For this purpose, by making use of field studies and literature, the factors that will affect the winter tourism potential of the area have been determined, and the situation of these parameters in the field has been explained by comparing them with some winter tourism centers in Turkey. In addition, a suitability analysis was carried out by giving effect and weight values to the determined parameters. Secondary data about the field from various organizations were obtained and evaluated. According to the findings, in the suitability analysis consisting of five classes, most of the area where winter tourism investments are planned in Süleymaniye District is at a medium level; few of them are in the appropriate class. The most important advantages are that the site is located in the center of Gümüşhane City, close to the main roads, ease of transportation, slope, aspect and suitability of the land cover for winter tourism. However, artificial snow is likely to be needed in order to keep the snow thickness at an ideal level and to extend the winter tourism period. Designing the facility to be established in the field to produce its own energy will reduce the cost, while its association with other touristic destinations in the region will allow it to be used outside of the winter season.
Yazar isimleri: ['Harun Reşit BAĞCI', 'Halil İbrahim ZEYBEK', 'Serdar DEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Mavi Atlas
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gumusmaviatlas/issue/73222/1123825
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2457661
