Makale Başlığı: THE PLACE OF ARBITRATION IN INSURANCE AMONG TYPES OF ARBITRATION
Özet: 30 of the Insurance  Code, along with the regulations made in the article, a new procedural opportunity and legal remedy for the field of insurance has appeared in our country. This regulation, which is called insurance arbitration and consists of only one article of the Law, has a special place in our law, and its importance is increasing day by day due to the opportunities and advantages it offers. In particular, the simple, fast and fair resolution of disputes arising from insurance contracts by experts in this field has increased the interest in insurance arbitration. However, despite its increasing importance, arbitration in insurance shows different characteristics from other types of arbitration. Determining the difference and distinguishing features of arbitration in insurance from other arbitration types requires a separate study. In this study, conducted in this direction, the place and importance of arbitration in insurance among other arbitration types has been tried to be revealed. In the literature, arbitration is classified in several ways according to its legal nature and characteristics. The first of these is institutional and temporary arbitration. The second is voluntary and compulsory arbitration. The third is internal and external arbitration. Insurance arbitration, which is practiced in our country, has a special place in the difference between these types of classification. In this context, arbitration in insurance is located outside the arbitration system in the classical sense and has features related to some of the specified types of arbitration in its structure. However, it can be said that arbitration in insurance is a kind of individual exclusive system in terms of the practice of our country. Therefore, it would be a more correct approach to consider the arbitration system in insurance as a mixed system instead of trying to include it in a position within the arbitration classifications.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İstanbul Medeniyet Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/imhfd/issue/72794/1182063
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2679347
