Makale Başlığı: Determination of Consumer Profiles According to the Gender of Instagram Influencers
Özet: With social media becoming the centre of electronic commerce today and reaching substantial market shares, many business models have emerged; influencer marketing has recently attracted attention. The important thing here is not to reach more people but to reach the right people by using the right influencers. To get the right people, it is necessary to analyse social media users correctly as well as to know the influencers. This study aims to determine the demographic profiles of their followers according to the gender of the influencer that the companies are operating in a social media collaboration. In this study, where research was conducted for the influencers that Instagram users follow from their accounts, clustering analysis was made, and consumer profiles were determined. The data obtained from 483 participants were analysed by keeping the source credibility theory in the foreground. According to the results of the research, female social media users, while female influencers attach importance to their expertise in the product they promote, it has been seen that the perception of male influencers about their expertise is low. In general, consumers with similar characteristics attach more importance to reliability and attractiveness features in female influencers than to male influencers is another result obtained by the research. This study explains the thoughts of people who use social media about expertise, attractiveness, and trust according to the gender of the influencers they follow from their Instagram accounts. The results suggest companies that want to use influencers in product promotions and researchers who wish to study influencer marketing.
Yazar isimleri: ['Selçuk Yasin YILDIZ']
Yayın Yılı: 16 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Cumhuriyet Üniversitesi İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://esjournal.cumhuriyet.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/71333/1130303
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2484693
