Makale Başlığı: THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE LEVEL OF ACCORDANCE WITH THE MEDITERRANEAN DIET AND THE QUALITY OF SLEEP IN UNIVERSITY STUDENTS
Özet: Nutrition is very important for students to be successful and productive in society with their physical and mental health. The fact that students choose universities in different cities and leave the order they are used to may cause changes in their eating and sleeping patterns. The aim of this study is to examine the effect of university students' adherence to the Mediterranean Diet on their sleep quality. The Mediterranean Diet Adherence Scale (MEDAS) and the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Scale (PUKI) were used in the study. Survey data were used in the SPSS 22 program, frequency distributions for categorical variables and descriptive statistics for numerical variables. Parametric tests were used for the normally distributed variables, and non-parametric tests were used for the non-normally distributed variables. Independent samples T-test and One Way ANOVA test were used to determine whether there was a difference between the two independent groups. Pearson test was used in Correlation Analysis. The sample of the study was realized with 200 people studying at Yeni Yüzyıl University. 55% of the students participating in the study were female and 45% male. According to the results, it was concluded that there was no significant difference between gender and PUKI (p>0.05), but there was a significant difference between gender and MEDAS (p<0.05). It was concluded that male participants (7.47±2.01) had higher MEDAS results than female participants (6.25±2.18). It was concluded that the MEDAS result was low in students with high BMI. As a result of the research, a statistically significant, average, inversely proportional relationship was found between PUKI and MEDAS (r = -0.340; p<0.01). According to this result, it was concluded that as the participant's adherence to the Mediterranean diet increased, their sleep quality also increased.
Yazar isimleri: ['Azra BALKANLI', 'Kezban Esen KARACA', 'Merve SAVICI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Izmir Democracy University Health Sciences Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iduhes/issue/72852/1174346
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2646783
