Makale Başlığı: Hematological Status in Septic or Non Septic Dogs due to Parvoviral Enteritis
Özet: Canine parvovirus (CPV) is an important cause of morbidity and mortality for dogs younger than 1 year-old. Canine parvoviral enteritis (CPE) is a predisposing factor for the development of sepsis. The inflammatory response to the disease may have predictive value for the alterations in the presence of sepsis. Therefore, the diagnostic approach to a septic dog with CPE should include clinical examinations followed by routine laboratory examinations such as hemogram. In this study, a total of 61 dogs, aged 4-6 months, 7 healthy (Control Group) and 54 diseased dogs with clinical signs of CPE such as anorexia, vomiting and hemorrhagic enteritis (CPE Group) were used. CPE group was divided into Septic CPE (n: 25) and Non Septic CPE (n: 29) subgroups in accordance with 2001 systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) criterias. Clinical examinations and hemogram analysis from venous blood samples were performed. When compared to the Control group, the respiratory rate (RR), heart rate (HR) and body temperature of the dogs in the CPE group were higher (p<0.000) and the capillary refill time (CRT) was shorter (p<0.014). In the comparison of Septic CPE and Non Septic CPE groups, the RR was higher in the Septic CPE group (p<0.001). When compared to the Control group, the leukocytes (WBC), granulocyte, mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH), mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC) and hemoglobin (Hb) values of the CPE group were lower (p<0.031) and the reticulocyte distribution width (RDW) value was higher (p<0.001). In the comparison of Septic CPE and Non Septic CPE groups, WBC, lymphocyte, monocytes and granulocyte values of the Septic CPE group were lower (p<0.006) and MCH values were higher (p<0.004). As a result, it was concluded that in accordance with the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) based diagnostic performance analysis, RR, WBC, lymphocyte, MCH, monocytes and granulocyte values can provide useful diagnostic information in differentiating dogs with septic and non septic CPE and may help identifying the disease severity earlier in triage and increase survival rate with early intervention.
Yazar isimleri: ['Erdem GÜLERSOY', 'Amir NASERİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Dicle Üniversitesi Veteriner Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/duvetfd/issue/70834/1100794
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2363356
