Makale Başlığı: Periodicals with Arabic Alphabet in Kazakh (1870-1929) (Main Discussions about Language and Alphabet)
Özet: The second half of the 19th century, when press activities began to be seen in Kazakhstan, was a period in which important developments were experienced in terms of Kazakh language. The following topics are highlighted looking at the topics with philological value in periodicals with Arabic letters; discussions about the alphabet, orthographic rules regulating the writing of the Kazakh language with Arabic letters, the status of Kazakh and Russian in official institutions, the situation of Kazakh and Russian in terms of the language of education, the use of the language in textbooks and in the press, equivalents for foreign words etc. It is seen that the aforementioned issues were mostly brought up by names such as A. Baytursınov, Duwlatov and D. Sultanğazin. On the other hand, the first newspapers and magazines; It is in the form of scientific publications that include theories and views on education, politics, economy, language, history, literature and culture by Kazakh intellectuals. Efforts for the solution of the backwardness of the Kazakh people, the advice given to awaken the national and spiritual feelings of the people seem to be the main purpose of these articles. In addition to these, the frequent closure of the first newspapers and magazines by the administration stands out as one of the most important problems that destabilize the Kazakh press life. This article focuses on the determination of the names of periodicals published in Arabic letters between 1870, the date of publication of the first newspaper in Kazakhstan, and 1929, the date of adoption of the Latin alphabet, and making brief evaluations about their content. The study is limited to the newspapers and magazines in the Arabic alphabet and aims to introduce the language and alphabet content in these publications. In this study, which is expected to contribute to the studies of Kazakh Turkish with Arabic letters, it was determined that there were at least 33 newspapers and 23 magazines for the mentioned period. It has been concluded that the information to be obtained in case of a comprehensive research of the philological materials discussed in these publications will make significant contributions to the history of the Kazakh language and the studies of periodicals in Arabic letters.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zhanat KUANYSHBAYEVA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Dil Araştırmaları
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dilarastirmalari/issue/73633/1145703
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2546143
