Makale Başlığı: Risk Management Scale in Health and Fitness Facilities: Validity and Reliability Study
Özet: In this research, it was aimed to develop a valid and reliable measurement tool that determines the level of risk management practices in health and fitness facilities. The participants of this research consisted of 450 managers, 153 women and 257 men, working at health and fitness facilities in Istanbul, Ankara, and Izmir. Item pool was created by the information, obtained from the international literature, leading associations in the health and fitness sector, sports managers, and sport scientists. Items were subjected to experts opinion twice, in terms of the clarity, the extent to which they belong and, the risk management measurement in general. All items were measured and sorted using a five-point Likert scale. Scale development process of the research was started with exploratory factor analysis (EFA), was conducted on data, obtained from 250 managers. Analysis was demonsrated that scale structure was consisted of 24 items and 3 dimensions (“construction and design”, “policy”, “member services”). Also EFA results were showed that total variance rate of the items in the scale was 61,160%. In the second stage of scale development process Confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was conducted. Second group of participants that, 200 managers were take parth this stage. CFA results were indicated that the model's goodness-of-fit indices of scale were within acceptable level. In addition, the reliability coefficient of the items in the dimensions of the Risk Management Scale in Health and Fitness Facilities (RMSHFF) was found out between 0.889 to 0.916 and 0.941 in general. As aresult, AFA and CFA analysis were introduced that, RMSHFF was a valid, reliable, and useful measurement tool for risk management practices in health and fitness facilities.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ali ERASLAN', 'Zafer ÇİMEN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Spor Bilimleri Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jssr/issue/67856/1055834
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2184034
