Makale Başlığı: KEEPING THE SHIP REGISTER IN ELECTRONIC ENVIRONMENT
Özet: Ship registry was established to keep the ships registered due to the great economic value of the ships. It includes the elements that distinguish the ship, the rights on the ship and the legal relations. With the development of technology, many registers in our country have started to be kept in electronic environment. However, the ship registry has lagged technological developments and still continues to be kept in the physical environment. One of the most important reasons for this is that the legislation is outdated and cannot keep up with the developing age. Although the Draft Ship Registry Regulation has been prepared, it has not entered into force. GESBIS is a concept in this draft and means the Ship Registry Information System, where registration and registration are made in the ship registry and the registry information is kept in electronic environment. In our study, the draft prepared for the implementation of the ship registry was examined and the articles on how to keep the registry in electronic environment were evaluated. Because a legislation should be prepared to transfer the ship registry to electronic environment. The ship registry should be able to be examined by everyone due to the publicity function of the registry. Keeping the registry in electronic environment will facilitate the examination of the registry and taking samples from the registry. In addition, the electronic ship registry does not only mean the transition from the book ship registry, but it should also regulate the registration processes in electronic environment. In our study, the effects of the electronic ship registry on the ship registry application and the problems that may occur in its regulation are also examined.
Yazar isimleri: ['Esra DELİCE TEKİN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Kırıkkale Hukuk Mecmuası
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/khm/issue/69659/1083627
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2407425
