Makale Başlığı: Analysis of Gabriel Faure’s Elegy in Terms of Form and Violoncello Technique
Özet: While performing a musical work; Factors that will affect the composer's musical style, such as the geography in which the piece was written, the environment in which the composer lived, the art movements of the period, the political characteristics of the place where he was born and the period should also be taken into consideration. In addition, it is very important for a good performance to analyze what the piece contains in terms of form and instrument technique. For such reasons, it will be very useful to apply these steps before starting the work. Thanks to the preliminary preparation, what is told while writing from the works composed by the performer will be better understood as the work is depicted. The aim of the research, in which the French composer Gabriel Faure's (1845-1924) Elegy, written in 1880, will be examined, is to offer recommendations on these points. Originally composed as the second movement of Gabriel Faure's cello-piano sonata, As the composer did not want to complete the sonata, it was named Elegy as a one-part work. In addition, it is also available in an adapted version for orchestra and soloist by writing the orchestral accompaniment.     The work, which was transcribed into the repertoire of many different instruments with the beauty of its melodic structure, dates back to the 20th century with the romantic period. It became one of the first examples of the Impressionist movement by coinciding with the transition. In this study, suggestions will be made in terms of form and cello technique to those who want to play this piece, and facilitating recommendations will be made such as what to pay attention to while working on the piece.
Yazar isimleri: ['Elif SAYIN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Eurasian Journal of Music and Dance
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ejmd/issue/69123/1003125
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2003751
