Makale Başlığı: Abu Dawud's Consideration of the Practices of the Companions as a Method of Elimination of Dispute between Hadiths and the Possibility of Applicability of his Method in Sunan
Özet: The methods used to identify the hadiths that have contradictions between them and to eliminate the contradiction are very important. Some problems arising from narrator or narration may cause cooperation from time to time in terms of understanding the hadiths. For this reason, scholars have applied different methods to eliminate the conflict between hadiths that seem to be opposite to each other and have contradictions between them. This situation led to the scholar's way of understanding the hadiths among which there were contradictions. It is known that methods such as jam/ta'lif, naskh, preference, pausing and tasâkut are widely applied by scholars according to certain procedures and taking into account different priorities in resolving the contradiction that arises between the hadiths. In particular, it is seen that the muhaddiths prioritize the jam/ta’lif method in eliminating the contradiction between the hadiths. The general attitude of the muhaddiths on this issue is not to abandon one of the hadiths, but to make both of them applicable at the same time. This is the rule of "Practice is better, than abondonment", which is included in the classical sources and is widely referenced. However, it is known that in order to eliminate the contradiction, different reasons are prioritized by the authors other than these criteria, and in the hadiths where there is a contradiction between them, attention is paid to various reasons for preference originating from the narrator or text. One of these methods is the work of the Companions. The Sunan of Abu Dawud (d. 275/889) is an important example of taking this method into account in the selection process between the narrations that conflict with each other. On the other hand, it is problematic whether Abu Dawud applied this method in all hadiths that conflict in Sunan, based on the common hadiths that are said to be apparently in conflict in the classical sources. Because it is understood from some expressions that he also applied the method of naskh on some occasions. There is no evidence that Abu Dawud used jam/ta’lif method. It is seen that Abu Dawud offers an action-oriented solution in general to these contradictory narrations. It can be said that this principle is similar to the practice of the Maliki school in Medina. In addition, it is seen that Abu Dawud stated that there are some hadiths from the Muwatta in his book "Risâla ila ahl al-Mecca". Abu Dawud's frequent reference to Imam Malik in Sunan is also important in terms of showing the interaction between them. In case of contradiction with this approach of Abu Dawud, it is seen that he adopted a method other than the order determined by the muhaddiths. This article deals with the contradictory hadiths in comparison with the commentaries of Sunan and the information in other hadith sources. With this method, it has been tried to determine the hadith-deed criteria that Abu Dawud is based on in the hadiths that seem contradictory, which is different from the general practices of the narrators. This is also very important as it shows the method differences of the narrators in the conflicting hadiths. However, Abu Dawud drew attention to the hadiths on which the deed was not permissible. In this regard, he said twice in Sunan, "If two hadiths from the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) dispute each other, the deeds of his companions will be examined after him." This is also the method of the people of Iraq. In this regard, they are based on the principle that "If a hadith from a narrator is fixed and the deed is contrary to it, the deed is taken as the basis, not the hadith." Abu Dawud, after including the hadiths that are contradictory, he emphasized the practice by saying, "Deed is not according to this hadith." According to Abu Dawud, the main thing in eliminating the contradiction in the narrated hadiths is the deeds of the Companions, and the absence of any action on the hadith indicates abrogation. Abu Dawud did not make a statement about every hadith in Sunan that have a contradiction between them with the emphasis on deeds. In other words, in some of the conflicting hadiths, the emphasis on deeds is seen, while in others no interpretation is made. By making this statement in certain parts of his book, the author of Sunan may have pointed out that he would use the same solution in other conflicting hadiths. Whether or not Abu Dawud used the method of deeds in all the hadiths that conflict is one of the problematic points of the issue. Although the issues included in the article are within the framework of the rule pointed out by the author, possible solutions that the author may have resorted to in case of contradiction were evaluated, and it was researched whether this rule of the author could be applied to all hadiths that conflict in the Sunan.
Yazar isimleri: ['Erkan ÖNDER']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kocatepe İslami İlimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kiid/issue/73811/1170752
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2631445
