Makale Başlığı: Morphological Analysis in American and Turkish Animated Films: The Example of Özgür Ruh and Doru
Özet: While Propp was forming the morphological approach of the tale, he determined 31 functions and 7 action areas and suggested that the contents of the tales are the same even though their subjects are different. Tales have become an area of interest for the cinema and animation industry with the transfer of oral tradition to writing and the development of technology. In essence, the narrative structures used in cinema and animation show similarities with fairy tales. Especially for animated films, it can be said that the narratives in fairy tales are modern versions adapted to the present. This study aims to reveal that the world's cinema and animation giant, the American-made feature-length animated feature "Özgür Ruh", originally called Stallion of the Cimarron in 2002, and the 2017 Turkish animated movie Doru, by examining Propp's Morphological method, have common structural features. Özgür Ruh and Doru films were selected as samples for comparison in this study because their narrative structures and storylines are quite similar, and their major protagonists are horses who live in the wild and assume/will assume leadership of their herd. The examination of Özgür Ruh and Doru was based on the morphological approach used by V. Propp. In Spirit, 22 of the 31 functions and 5 of the 7 action spheres are encountered; in Doru, 18 of the 31 functions and 6 of the 7 action spheres are encountered. The narrative resemblance in animated films from two different nations supports the notion that although the persons and characters in Propp's narratives are diverse, their actions and functions are the same.
Yazar isimleri: ['Beyza SARGIN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İletişim ve Toplum Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jcss/issue/72807/1146129
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2547832
