Makale Başlığı: Food Security In Turkey In The Process Of Globalization
Özet: The concept of globalization is one of the subjects that should be studied in the field of social sciences. When we look at the conceptualizations of social scientists about globalization, a global level of consciousness has been revealed as space and time lose their importance in the global relations system within a holistic approach. With globalization, security problems have emerged and these problems have affected all countries. Turkey has also been in the position of a country that has been heavily affected by the movements of globalization. While the concept of safety has become an increasingly important issue, food safety, as a sub-branch of it, has started to be among the very important issues that need to be researched and studied. With the improvement of the quality of life in the states and the progress of the age, more importance has been given to the substances that the consumed foods contain, to be healthy and safe. Food safety standards have gained an international character in the globalizing world and food management systems have been created. On the other hand, the variability of dangers in the globalizing world has diversified the field of security. In addition to military dangers, issues such as famine, environment, energy problems and food have been included in the scope of security and have gained a global character. As a result of this, it is important that a security perception that puts the security needs of individuals in the foreground, takes place in applications. However, in the study, the nutritional problems that are increasing day by day are handled; Adequate access to food and the availability of healthy and safe foodstuffs were examined. At the same time, the importance, meaning and history of the concept of food safety were examined in the study. Then, the situation in Turkey was evaluated by examining the food safety legislation and the principles of the Turkish Food Legislation were also included.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yüksel ARIKAN', 'İlke Bezen TOZKOPARAN']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Sosyal Bilimler Akademi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/usbad/issue/72342/1079455
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2276467
