Makale Başlığı: An Examınation Of The Emotions, Attitudes And Anxiety Of Physical Education And Other Branch Teachers Towards Inclusion - Integration Education
Özet: Background: Inclusion students can be found at all levels in schools. Knowing the psychological state of teachers about this situation can reveal important data for both physical education teachers and other branch teachers who are in education and training environments with these students regarding the inclusion-integration processes.Objective: The aim of this study is to examine the emotion, anxiety and attitude of physical education teachers and other branch teachers about inclusion education.Methods: The survey model was used in the study. The study group of the research consists of teachers working in secondary and high schools in public schools affiliated to the Ministry of National Education in Sincan and Etimesgut districts in Ankara in the 2020-2021 academic year. A total of 414 teachers answered our questionnaires, 115 physical education teachers and 299 in other branches.Results: In the gender variable of all teachers, a significant difference was found in favor of physical education teachers in the anxiety sub-dimension of inclusive education, but no difference was found in the sub-dimensions of emotion and attitude. When physical education teachers and other teachers were compared, a significant difference was found in the sub-dimension of emotion and anxiety, but no difference in the sub-dimension of attitude. There is a significant difference in the sub-dimensions of anxiety and attitude in the in-service training variable in favor of those who receive training. however, no difference was found in the emotion sub-dimension. There is a significant difference in the anxiety and attitude sub-dimensions of being an inclusion student. however, no difference was found in the emotion sub-dimension. There is a significant difference in the emotion sub-dimension of teachers in terms of the education level variable. however, no difference was found in the anxiety and attitude sub-dimension.Conclusion: Although the feelings and attitudes are similar in all teachers, Physical Education teachers are both more emotional and more anxious. Teachers who receive in-service training and teachers who are inclusion students are more anxious and have higher attitude scores.
Yazar isimleri: ['Remzi EŞKİL', 'Mehmet Kadir AKBULUT', 'Kezban GÜLŞEN EŞKİL', 'Ekrem Levent İLHAN']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Aksaray University Journal of Sport and Health Researches
Yayın sayfa url: http://asujshr.aksaray.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/70321/1081353
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2283888
