Makale Başlığı: The production of line-drawing and 3D modeling of historical Mehmet Ali Bey Fountain with SFM approach
Özet: Historical and cultural artifacts provide information about ancient life, language, religion, literature, traditions and architecture. Documentation of cultural artifacts is of great importance in terms of protecting and transferring them to future generations. In recent years, Structure from Motion (SfM) can be used to generate dense point cloud, ortho-image, line-drawings, and 3D models in addition to the classical terrestrial photogrammetry methods. The fast documentation and archiving studies can be carried out by SfM approach using low-cost cameras with cost effective project budget. In this study, it is aimed to produce line-drawing, ortho-image, and 3D models of Mehmet Ali Bey Fountain by using SfM approach. The Mehmet Ali Bey Fountain is one of the registered historical structures in the "Monuments" class among registered immovable cultural assets throughout Turkey, located in the Abbasaga District of Besiktas/Istanbul from the Ottoman Sultan II. Mahmut period. The installation and measurement of the control points were conducted, and the image acquisition was performed with convergent image acquisition method. The 3D point cloud generation of Mehmet Ali Bey Fountain was performed after image orientation steps. The productions of 3D model, ortho-image, and line-drawing have been carried out successfully using the produced point cloud. In this study, all processes for the documentation of historical structure were carried out using “Agisoft Metashape Professional” and “Autocad” software. The analyzed measured distances between the GCPs and corresponding distances from 3D model (standard deviation of the differences is 0.5 cm) proved the success of the SfM method for documentation of registered historical artifacts and cultural heritage.  
Yazar isimleri: ['Naci YASTIKLI', 'Zehra ÇETİN', 'Erdal ASAMAKA']
Yayın Yılı: 9 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Cultural Heritage and Science
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cuhes/issue/71227/1137691
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2514644
