Makale Başlığı: Using The Thick-Shelled River Mussel (Unio crassus) Filtering Ability for Water Treatment Process in Aquaculture Systems: an In Vitro Study on Removal of the Bacteria from The Water
Özet: The thick-shelled river mussel (Unio crassus) is listed as 'Endangered' on the IUCN Red List of Threat-ened Species and it is important to culture them for the conservation of natural stocks. Integrating mussels into the freshwater aquaculture system could be an efficient method, because of their filter-ing  ability.  In  this  study,  it  was  aimed  to  determine  the  bacteria  filtering  ability  of  the  thick-shelled  river mussel on an aquaculture system to determine if the water quality got better in terms of bacte-riology. Depuration, disinfection, and antibiotic treatments were applied to reduce the bacterial load in the mussels' bodies. Disinfection was made using NaCl2, 2-Phenoxyethanol, Formalin, Virkon® S and  Chloramine  T.  Antibiotic  treatment  was  performed  using  Oxytetracycline  and  Florfenicol.  The  best result was obtained in the group to which 5 mg L-1 Oxytetracycline was added. However, since mussels can uptake the same bacteria into own bodies with their own pseudofeces, it was found that it is appropriate to use antibiotic treatment and depuration applications together. In the experiment of keeping them in the same environment with the pathogens (Staphylococcus epidermidis, Aero-monas caviae), intense growth of bacteria was inoculated into water. Thus, it has been determined that  mussels  clean  the  water  by  removing  bacteria  from  the  environment  within  48  hours,  so  river  mussels can be adapted to aquaculture systems to reduce aquatic bacteria.
Yazar isimleri: ['Menekşe Didem DEMİRCAN', 'Aygül EKİCİ', 'Gökhan TUNÇELLİ', 'Merve TINKIR', 'İlker KESKİN', 'Devrim MEMİŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Aquatic Sciences and Engineering
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ase/issue/72502/1136891
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2511543
