Makale Başlığı: Ambiguous Authorization in Hadith: Evaluations about the Expression ‘the Person I Don’t Accuse’
Özet: Following the emergence of chain in the history of hadith, criticism and approval activities started and it was tried to determine whether the narrators who carried the texts to the next generations were qualified for the narration. Although their names are mentioned, the narrations of unknown persons about whom there is no information were approached with suspicion, and different opinions were expressed about the narrators whose proficiency in the science of hadith is unknown, even if their personality is known. Although it is possible to extend the said sensitivity to the general public in the period of narration, it is seen that some narrators in our classical hadith sources are mentioned with expressions such as "a trustworthy" or "the person I do not accuse" that gives the impression of approval. It is controversial how these usages, which are more common especially in the first three layers of the cain, should be evaluated. While some of the scholars said that if a reputable narrator narrates, these expressions meaning "the proof of trust" cannot be accepted due to ignorance, some scholars have stated that these uses of the narrator whose criticism is trusted may be acceptable. In the article, the phrase "the person I do not accuse" of these ambiguous uses has been examined, and its use in the historical process has been tried to be determined in terms of its connotations among scholars and its results. The identities of the narrators, their cerh-tadil statuses and the reasons why the names of the narrators were closed were investigated. Considering the information in the sources and the chains from which the narrations were transmitted, the authenticity of the narrations and the consequences of their transmission with this wording were revealed. As a result, it has been determined that there is no definite acceptance or rejection of the use of the person 'I do not accuse' and that individual evaluations should be made about each narrator who uses this word. Although sometimes it can be detected, it has been determined that the narrator, which is mostly left closed can't be detected and it can also be used for both weak and sika narrators.
Yazar isimleri: ['Taha ÇELİK', 'Mustafa Yasin AKBAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Bilimname
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bilimname/issue/73035/1133873
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2499391
