Makale Başlığı: Ideas, Beliefs, and Maturidi under the Samanid Dynasty Dome
Özet: As Abbasid Caliphate has begun to lose its control over the region, independent khanates have emerged in this area. Samanid Dynasty, which has gained the power and control in Transoxiana and Khorasan lands, was the one of these khanates. Realizing the fact that the central power of Abbasid Caliphate has weakened during the disintegration process, for their survival Samanid Dynasty has pursued an administrative policy that was based on keeping the different cultures together under its roof. Thus, they provided freedom for different beliefs and philosophical considerations, and transformed these regions into a trading centre through the fertile lands and their domination on the Silk Road. This success created an fertile atmosphere for different believes and ideas under the Samanid dome, and for the development of scientific discussions. However, the geopolitical position of the region and the extension of the power, throne struggles, civil wars, and the environmental supresses have dragged the Samanid Dynasty into the consumption.Abu Mansur Maturidi (852 -944), who spent 69 years of his life under the dome of the Samanid Dynasty, has been considered as the most important philosopher of the period. His thoughts represent the rational dimension of Sunni understanding. The view that connects Maturidi’s genuineness to the comfortable and prosperous environment and to the thesis that his intellectual discussions were not robust enough, have not reflected the truth. His intellectual depth, the understanding and interpretation method he has developed, the scientific nature of the subjects he has discussed, his struggle against extremist views show that he has been an important scholar. It is a fact that this intellectual depth and genuineness has been “lost” in the historical process and its name has not been properly mentioned. The reason here is not Samarkand is that more important scientific centres than Baghdad and Basra. Because there has been a lot of data showing that intellectual capital has been moved in this period. The main reason is the power-interpretation relationship in the region. In the Islamic geography, the content of a proposition has determined by power, not science. Maturidi, who could not receive political support due to his views, was thrown out of the centre.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nadim MACİT']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Buca Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/deubefd/issue/70599/1083898
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2294250
