Makale Başlığı: Hegemonic Masculinity and Violence
Özet: Masculinity is a concept constructed socially, and it can vary according to the society and the history. However, for decades, social sciences have neglected the concept and being a man is acknowledged as a normative fact. Gender studies have mostly focused on woman and the status of women within the society. Apart from 1970’s, “masculinity” has begun to be considered as a part of gender relationship. Connell, who has conceptualized the masculinity, has brought the concept of force and power to a central position. Connell has addressed masculinity as a structure reinforcing the power relationship within a society. Starting from force and power, he has put forth the concept of “hegemonic masculinity” by examining various masculinity and shapes of being man with different powers. The execution of hegemonic masculinity mainly targets at women and those who do not bear the pre-condition of being heterosexual, which is considered as the law of hegemonic masculinity. Violence and masculinity relationship become solid by using violence as a tool to prove the masculinity. Violence as a practice of hegemonic masculinity is also a social performance reproducing the masculinity. The fear of weakening the masculinity ideology or of losing being hegemonic converts the violence into a tool. Hegemonic masculinity violence which reproduces itself via institutions does not use the violence only against women. Kaufman explains the shapes of violence used by men with a triangle. He considers the corners of the triangle as the violence against women by men, violence among men and violence by man to himself. The violence against himself or another man by the man himself is closely related with power, as in the violence against women. Violence appears as a tool for men to prove their power. Taking it as a starting point, this article aims to examine the social construction of masculinity and to analyze the relationship between hegemonic masculinity and violence theoretically
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Haziran 2018
Dergi ismi: Akademia Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asj/issue/40224/479043
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/568063
