Makale Başlığı: AN INVESTIGATION OF THE HAT IN TERMS OF PLACE, USAGE AND DESIGN FEATURES IN TURKEY IN THE REPUBLICAN PERIOD
Özet: People have been using clothes since the foundation of civilization. In addition to meeting needs such as protection from the cold and covering, clothing is also a tool to reflect the culture and beliefs of its wearer. While climatic conditions such as cold or hot are the most important factors in the design of the first clothes, traditions and customs have become the most important determinant in the design of clothes over time. The hat is an accessory that is as old as humanity itself. Hats used for different purposes in every era; vary greatly according to time, conditions and requirements. Hats were also used for different purposes in Turkish and Ottoman culture. The first radical change in the Ottoman hat and cap culture was when the use of the fez was made compulsory instead of other types of caps. II. The years after the actual start of the World War II were referred to as the years of poverty and famine in Turkey as well as the rest of the world. In the 21st century, the hat has ceased to be a status symbol both in the world and in our country, and the frequency of its use has decreased considerably. Today, various hat models are caps as complementary accessories by women, and caps that protect from the cold are complementary clothing used by men as appropriate.The second radical change in the hat culture in Anatolian lands was with the revolutions carried out under the leadership of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. With the hat revolution, different hats for different occupational groups were added to the clothes as a complement and the hat became a part of daily life. This study deals with the hat revolution that took place in the republican period and the reflections of the hat revolution to the present through a compilation in the light of different academic studies.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hilal Zühre TOPÇU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Asya Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asya/issue/72908/1143839
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2538536
