Makale Başlığı: A Comparative Case Study to Experiences of High School Students Using Text-Based versus Hybrid-Based Environments in Programming Education
Özet: This study aimed to comparatively determine the experiences of high school students in programming language education via text-based or hybrid-based programming environments. A comparative case study was conducted in this study. The participants consisted of a total of 19 high school students with no previous experience in any programming language, nine of them in the text-based programming group and ten of them in the hybrid-based programming group. The qualitative data were obtainedwith a semi-structured interview at the end of the 10-week programming education process and analyzed by content analysis. The findings were presented in dimensions of difficulties and conveniences in a programming language course, anxiety about the programming process, course outcomes, and their preferences for future programming courses. In each dimension, even if common codes were obtained for both groups in some themes, the effects of these codes on students differed in each group. According to the findings, in the programming process, students faced some difficulties and conveniences in terms of mental effort. While “trying to figure out where they made a mistake” created a difficulty, “using comprehensible visual elements in the hybrid-based environment” as a convenience had the highest frequency among the codes. Some situations caused learning anxiety instudents such as worry about failing, while others did not. The students achieved positive and negative course outcomes. “Understanding the logic of coding and acquiring programming skills” which was one of the positive outcomes had the highest frequency. In addition, students' preferences regarding whether or not to attend the future programming courses changed for various reasons. “Unwilling to programming language education” was one of these findings. Considering the scarcity of programming education studies via text-based and hybrid-based programming environments, the results and implications of this study are to strengthen future research by providing rich data.
Yazar isimleri: ['Alper UNAL', 'Fatma Burcu TOPU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: e-Kafkas Eğitim Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kafkasegt/issue/69472/1053820
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2176549
