Makale Başlığı: Investigation of the 2018 Class Teaching Undergraduate Curricula Revision From the Perspective of Implementors
Özet: In the context of abiding by the Bologna process the teacher training undergraduate curricula were revised in 2018 by the Council of Higher Education in Turkey (CoHE). Revised class teaching curricula investigation of the revision process for the program will reveal whether changes are appropriate or not. In this context, the aim of the research was to investigate the 2018 revision of the class teaching undergraduate curricula from the perspective of implementors. The research had a qualitative approach pattern. The study group comprised 14 academics who participated in studies for the 2018 class teaching undergraduate program revision, were assigned to the CoHE Curricula Update Commission and participated in workshops to promote the curricula. Data were collected with semi-structured interviews. Data analysis was completed with content analysis. As a result of the research, the curricula revision process was directed centrally, the development process for the revision program was not performed appropriately, pilot applications were not performed, there was no gradual relationships in the curricula, stakeholder opinions were not reflected in the curricula, some basic education and applied lessons for class teaching were removed from the curricula, lesson hours were reduced or these lessons were included as elective lessons, the content of mandatory and elective lessons about professional knowledge, general culture and content education overlapped, and the number of elective lessons increased while the lesson hours for applied lessons reduced. In the context of determinations revealed by the results of the research, the revised curricula can be said to be inadequate to train qualified teachers, and that problems will be experienced in terms of contributions to universities and to Turkey. For this reason, it is recommended that the curricula be revised and organized again to cope with the changing problems of the 21st century and to ensure training of versatile and multi-cultured teachers.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nermin KARABACAK']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Anadolu Journal of Educational Sciences International
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ajesi/issue/71051/936035
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1763627
