Makale Başlığı: Al-jarḥ wa-l-taʿdīl Method in al-Bayhaqī’s (d. 458/1066) Work al-Khiláfiyyāt
Özet: Thanks to their importance in Islam, ḥadīths have always been a prominent concern for Islamic scholars. Ḥadīth scholars, acting really cautiously to narrate the words of the Prophet (pbuh) in the ṣaḥīḥ (sound) forms, developed a field of ʿilm (scholarship) to save ḥadīths. This area of scholarship is called, among other names, ʿilm al-rijāl. Thanks to ʿilm al-rijāl, it is possible to detect whether the rāwī, taking part in the sanad of a ḥadīth, is a trustworthy person. In this way, information can be obtained on whether the ḥadīths belong to the Prophet (pbuh), whether they are ṣaḥīḥ or not, and consequently on whether they can be used as evidence. 	This study analyses the explanations on al-jarḥ wa-l-taʿdīl in the work al-Khiláfiyyāt by Aḥmad ibn Ḥusayn al-Bayhaqī, who has remarkable experience and depth of knowledge about ʿilm al-rijāl and is one of the best known ḥadīth scholars. 	Al-Bayhaqī is a ḥadīth scholar who authored many books in the field of ḥadīth. His work as-Sunan al-Kubra is one of the most famous sunans written in ḥadīth literature. Thus, al-Bayhaqī is a scholar contributing in a great variety of fields such as fiqh, faith and morals, as well as ḥadīth. 	Al-Khiláfiyyāt by al-Bayhaqī addresses the fiqhi (jurisprudental) disagreements between Shāfiʿī and Hanafi schools. This study deals with the field of ḥadīth, as well. This is because the controversial matters were classified via al’al-abwāb (according to their bābs) system, and the ḥadīth evidence of both parties were shared in this book. After this, many narrated riwayahs were analysed in terms of al-jarḥ wa-l-taʿdīl, and it was scrutinized whether the ḥadīths were ṣaḥīḥ and ḍaʻīf (weak).	In this study, the interpretations of al-Bayhaqī on al-jarḥ wa-l-taʿdīl in the work called al-Khiláfiyyāt are examined. Therefore, specific to al-Bayhaqī’s mentioned work, information will be obtained about subject such as al-jarḥ wa-l-taʿdīl method, and about ʿilm al-rijāl scholars he was influenced from etc.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sedat YILDIRIM']
Yayın Yılı: 4 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Genç Mütefekkirler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gemder/issue/70174/1095430
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2340721
