Makale Başlığı: EXAMINATION OF OECD COUNTRIES IN TERMS OF LABOR INDEX WITH CLUSTERING ANALYSIS
Özet: The workforce has left its place to automatic mechanization with the development of technology. The labor market consists of the supply and demand of labor. Unemployment may occur when an imbalance occurs in this market. Unemployment can make people suffer both socially and economically. Unemployment necessitates reforms in the labor market, both socially/psychologically and economically. In this study, 7 labor force indexes, which are accepted as reliable by the OECD, were used as an indicator and cluster analysis was made among OECD countries and the clusters formed by the countries were evaluated. It was examined how many clusters OECD countries would be divided into with the dendogram graph formed in the hierarchical clustering method, and then each cluster was compared by dividing into two, three and four clusters with the K-Means method. In the study, 7 variables including workload, physical health and risk factors, long working hours, flexibility of working hours, autonomy - learning opportunities, education - training and opportunities for career development, which are included in the workforce index of 35 OECD and EU member countries, were compared. Countries are divided into clusters according to their similar characteristics in terms of these 7 variables. The aim of the study is to examine the situation of Turkey in 35 countries in terms of labor force index. When the clusters are examined, the best clustering of 35 countries in terms of variables is the cluster formed from four. When the clusters were formed into four clusters, Turkey was included in the fourth cluster and the cluster average of the fourth cluster workload and working hours flexibility variables was higher than the other clusters. The cluster averages of autonomy and educational opportunities, education and training, physical health and risk factors variables are the lowest compared to other clusters.
Yazar isimleri: ['Tuğba YILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Yönetim Eğitim ve Ekonomik Perspektifler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jimeep/issue/70674/1123421
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2455991
