Makale Başlığı: The Relationship Between Urinary Incontinence and Sarcopenia in Patients with Dementia
Özet: Aim: Dementia, sarcopenia, and urinary incontinence (UI) are common geriatric syndromes. UI is a condition that affects the quality of life, results in social isolation, causes falls and, causes morbidity and mortality due to falls. UI also increases caregiver burnout and the burden of care in dementia patients. Continence requires an intact genito-urinary system, peripheral and central nervous system, and cognitive health. In addition, the importance of the pelvic floor muscles from the striated muscle group and the skeletal system in continence cannot be ignored. In the light of these facts, we aimed to evaluate the relationship between UI and sarcopenia in patients with dementia.Materials and Method: Dementia patients with sarcopenia who applied to the DEU Geriatrics unit between January 2015 and December 2021 were included. Patients with CDR 3 dementia and those with acute problems were excluded. Patients were grouped according to their UI status and evaluated for sarcopenia using the EWGSOP-2 criteria.Results: According to the presence of UI, no significant difference was found in demographic and laboratory findings between groups. The frequency of anti-parkinsonian drug usage and depression was more common in the UI group. While, the frequency of probable sarcopenia, severe sarcopenia, slow gait speed, and frailty was higher in the UI group; Barthel's score was lower (p <0.050, for each). After regresion analysis, UI was associated with probable sarcopenia, severe sarcopenia, and slow gait speed (OR: 1.854, 95% CI 1.107-3.106; OR: 2.152, 95% CI 1.193-7.360; OR: 3.065, 95% CI 1.726 –5.443, respectively).Conclusion: Due to the lack of proven treatment for dementia itself, the treatment and prevention of comorbidities have great importance. Treatment of UI is important in increasing the quality of life and reducing the burden of care. The relationship between sarcopenia and UI should be kept in mind. Moreover, interventions for sarcopenia may be beneficial for UI.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatma Sena DOST', 'Açelya GÖKDENİZ YILDIRIM', 'Esra ATEŞ BULUT', 'Ali Ekrem AYDIN', 'Ahmet Turan IŞIK']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Çukurova Anestezi ve Cerrahi Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jocass/issue/72208/1117649
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2432045
