Makale Başlığı: Comparison of Efficiency and Complications of Two Different Non-invasive Ventilation Methods of Preterm Babies Treated with INSURE
Özet: Aim: Respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) is a respiratory failure due to surfactant deficiency and lung immaturity in preterm infants. In our study; we aimed to compare the short-term and long-term effects during the follow-up of preterms who were administered surfactant with the INSURE method with two different non-invasive ventilation methods.Materials and methods: Our study is a single-center, prospective, randomized controlled study conducted between January 2016 and December 2016. Preterms with a gestational age of <32 weeks and/or a birth weight of less than 1500 grams, who were admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit of Dr Behçet Uz Children's Hospital with the diagnosis of RDS and given surfactant, were included in the study. The ventilation type was randomized to synchronized nasal intermittent positive pressure ventilation (SNIPPV) and nasal continuous positive airway pressure (NCPAP) using the sealed envelope method. Reintubation, apnea, additional surfactant requirement, development of pneumothorax/atelectasis, gastric residue were recorded as primary outcomes. The secondary results were partial pressure of carbondioxide (pCO2) in the capillary blood gases of the patients, oxygen requirement and comorbidities.Results: A total of 35 infants, 15 in the SNIPPV group and 20 in the NCPAP group, participated in the study. The re-intubation rate was 15% in the NCPAP group and 13.3% in the SNIPPV group, while the gastric residual was 35% in the NCPAP group and 26.6% in SNIPPV group (p>0.05 and p>0.05; respectively). No significant difference was found between the other primary results compared (p>0.05). There was no statistically significant difference between comorbidities in both groups (p>0.05). The pCO2 level at 48th hour in the SNIPPV group was lower than that in the NCPAP group, leading to a statistically significant difference (p<0.05). Oxygen requirement was lower in the SNIPPV group at 48th hour, and this difference was significant (p>0.05). No mortality was observed in either group.Conclusion: It has been shown that after the administration of surfactant with the INSURE method in premature infants, the frequency of reintubation and oxygen requirement at 48 hours were lower in the SNIPPV group compared to the NCPAP group, and that SNIPPV did not have a different negative effect on feeding intolerance than NCPAP.
Yazar isimleri: ['Buse SOYSAL', 'Senem ALKAN ÖZDEMİR', 'Tülin GÖKMEN YILDIRIM', 'Şebnem ÇALKAVUR']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İzmir Tıp Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/izmirtip/issue/72623/1146754
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2550286
