Makale Başlığı: An Evaluation on Quotations of Verses by Some Ottoman Historians
Özet: Historical sources written in the Ottoman period reflect the necessary information about the economic, social, moral and religious aspects of the period. In these works, it is possible to see the religious understanding of the society and scholars of the period in which they were written. Because these works both convey historical information and reflect the social and religious structures of their period. Some Ottoman historians use verses and traditions (ahādith) to strengthen them with a religious basis while describing the events. In this study, the Qur’ānic verses that some Ottoman historians used in their works, at variance with the environment of revelation, and the interpretations that some commentators brought to these verses are given. When the lives of Ottoman historians are examined, it is seen that they have something to say about every subject, especially religion and history. Ottoman historians skillfully used the verses of the Qur’ān and traditions (ahādith) in the events they narrated in their works, and sometimes they took the whole verse or sometimes a part of it. The authors revealed different meanings and interpretations from the meaning of the verse in the context of its revelation, and they repeated the same verses from time to time. The historians reported the events in an objective way, avoiding prejudices. In general, commentators have taken into account the environment of revelation while interpreting the verses. Ottoman historians, on the other hand, used the verses according to the flow of events. For this reason, it has been seen that some verses are used differently from the revelation environment. The works of Ottoman historians, who included the verses of the Qur’ān in their works, were examined, and the verses used in a different sense from the revelation environment were determined. As a result of this determination, the message they wanted to give and the interpretation of some commentators on the same verse were compared. In the study, the text of the Ottoman historians about the event in which the verse takes place is given as an abstract, the commentators' interpretation of the verse is mentioned and an evaluation at the end is made.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kadir ERBİL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Tefsir Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tader/issue/73215/1150089
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2562424
