Makale Başlığı: A TYPOLOGICAL SUGGESTION FOR RAILWAY LODGING BUILDINGS OF  FIRST NATIONAL ARCHITECTURAL MOVEMENT
Özet: In the Ottoman Empire, the significance given to railway transportation started to increase since 19th Century. In this century, although some foreign capital sourced railway investments were made in the Ottoman lands for commercial purposes with some special privileges, only Anatolian, Caucasian and a part of the Roumelian railways remained after the Armistace of Mudros. After the War of Independence, it has become a national policy to equip the country with railways as well as nationalizing the lines which operated by foreign companies in the Republic of Turkey which was established under the leadership of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. Thus, the railway line was brought to Kayseri in 1927, to Sivas in 1930 also Malatya, Niğde, Diyarbakır and Erzurum before the end of the 1930’s. In this context, new railway buildings were needed for the new lines. In these years, in the style of the First National Architectural Movement which can be interpreted as the physical proof of the nation-state idea in architecture, railways buildings were built in the stations for new railway lines. Despite several buildings were constructed for different functions in the railway areas, the common interest is generally focused on the architecture, restoration and conservation and re-functioning of station buildings in the scientific studies. The buildings such as warehouses, lodgings, water tanks switchman buildings, hangars, which form the silhouette of the station site are not concentrated on. In this paper, a typological classification was made in the light of selected samples for a type or group of existing buildings based on the problem of “how these lodging buildings should be classified”.  As a result of this classification, it is seen that the detached lodgings and the lodgings adjacent to another building with a different function in the station area form the whole in the upper frame. There are buildings which constructed for lodging only, also there are multifunctional buildings for lodging and workplace. The purpose of use, the number of floors and number of users they built for examined in subgroups.
Yazar isimleri: ['Serkan SUNAY']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Ankara Üniversitesi Dil ve Tarih-Coğrafya Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dtcfdergisi/issue/70281/1063541
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2214959
