Makale Başlığı: Gradiva in Art History: Archaeology, Cinema, Music
Özet: Gradiva, Latin for "the woman who walks", is a Neo-Attica style bas-relief thatbecame renowned as a modern mythical figure in the early 20th century. Thisbas-relief found during the excavations in Pompeii in the 19th century, is nowexhibited in the Chiaramonti Museum in the Vatican. The figure, named asGradiva because it depicts a walking Pompeian girl, became an icon of literature,art, and psychoanalysis primarily through Sigmund Freud. The German writerWilhelm Jensen initiated the literary referencing of the Gradiva relief in his pioneering 1903 novella Gradiva, using the artwork as the novel's theme and introducing it to cultural history. Theliterary text attracted the attention of Freud, who was so interested in archaeology that he created his model ofpersonality structure based on archaeological layers, and thus, Freud wrote a famous essay on the subject. In the1930s, because of Freud's interpretation, Gradiva became the primary theme of surrealists whose interests weredreams and the unconscious. This theme, which numerous artists have reinterpreted in distinctive ways, has alsodrawn the attention of the filmmakers. Leos Carax's short film Gradiva (2014) is the most remarkable one. The cinemaof Carax who is one of the founders of the Cinéma du look movement following the tradition of the situationistcriticism, is about the psychological processes Gradiva signifies and it also examines the fundamental problems ofmodern people, for instance, identity, personality, individuation, and the self. In so doing, Carax's unique art, whichsuccessfully synthesizes the heritage of classical art, particularly rhythmic and plastic arts with the new image forms,also relates to the concepts such as Richard Wagner's gesamtkuntswerk and Guy Debord's détournement. This studydiscusses what Gradiva, an important figure in terms of self and identity relations, symbolizes for art history, whatmeanings it takes, and how it mirrors the search for the self as a psychological image, particularly in the context ofLeos Carax cinema.
Yazar isimleri: ['Duygu GÜLES KÖKEK']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Sanat Tarihi Yıllığı
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iusty/issue/71138/1065408
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2222112
