Makale Başlığı: Quantitative Determination of Metabolites of Turkestan Soaproot (Allochrusa gypsophiloides (Regel) Schischk.) Grown in Kazakhstan
Özet: Allochrusa gypsophiloides (Regel) Schischk. (Caryophyllaceae Juss.), Turkestan soaproot (TSR) is a super producer of triterpene saponins with a wide spectrum of pharmacological activity and high surface-active properties. The realization of his full commercial potential requires biochemical studies with a focus on the metabolites dynamics at various phases of plant development and in connection with the storage duration of raw plant material. Spectrophotometric determination of saponins in terms of oleanolic acid was carried out in roots with different morphometric parameters and the aerial part from wild plants collected in the south of Kazakhstan. The content of saponins, carbohydrates, phenols, and flavonoids as well as the foaming properties of ethanol extracts obtained from air-dried TSR roots before and after their long-term storage were evaluated. The maximum quantity of saponins was revealed in average roots from middle-aged and mature generative plants in fruiting. A high level of saponins was detected in the aerial part of plants during the flowering, which decreased twice at the fruiting stage. After long-term storage of the roots, an increase in the initial content of saponins and flavonoids combined with a decrease in carbohydrates was noted. Saponins accumulation was confirmed by a 12-fold increase in the foaming index in the aqueous extract from the deposited roots relative to its initial value in the extract from the original roots. The data obtained indicate the possibility of alternative use of the aerial part of the original plants of A. gypsophiloides at the flowering stage to obtain triterpene saponins.
Yazar isimleri: ['Valentina MURSALIYEVA', 'Akmaral ALGASY', 'Tlek MUKHANOV', 'Ramazan MAMMADOV', 'Nadezhda GEMEJİYEVA']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Nature and Life Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijnls/issue/70117/1180197
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2671132
