Makale Başlığı: Erkan-i Erbaa: Organizers of the 30 May 1876 Bureaucratic Coup
Özet: In the last years of Sultan Abdulaziz's reign, there were frequent changes in grand viziers and ministers, and rebellions were observed in the Balkans. The failure to continue the reforms required by the Tanzimat movement appeared the New Ottoman opposition, which led to the search for alternatives to replace himself. A four-party committee called Erkan-i Erbaa was formed, which saw both the personal resentments against Abdulaziz and the elimination of the state’s bad situation in overthrowing Abdulaziz. Dissimilar in character, but united in the desire to overthrow Abdulaziz, this person brought the coup to the agenda again as a means of power change. With the uprising of the madrasa students, Huseyin Avni Pasha was appointed as seraskier, Midhat Pasha as a member of the council of ministers, Mehmed Rusdu Pasha as the grand vizier, and Hayrullah Efendi as the sheik al-Islam. This situation provided a great opportunity for Erkan-i Erbaa, who had gained bureaucratically important positions in the state, to achieve their coup ambitions. Eighteen days after they came to these authorities, Abdulaziz was dethroned with the coup they organized and Crown Prince Murad was made sultan in his place. Although Erkan-i Erbaa agreed with the coup, they had different opinions on state administration. When this difference of opinion combined with the illness of Murad V, whom they enthroned, political and administrative instability occurred. In this context, the issue of power-sharing and re-establishment of the administrative order, which emerged as a result of the nature of the coup act, brings political turmoil. On the other hand, the success of the 30 May 1876 Coup by Erkan-i Erbaa, who is described as the bureaucratic elite, started a bad tradition that will inspire and encourage the coup movements in our recent political history. The main reference point of the study is who the Erkan-i Erbaa, who overthrew Abdulaziz, was, why they attempted the coup, and how they carried out this action. In this context, a synthesis was developed by referring to different opinions about Erkan-i Erbaa themselves and the reasons for the coup attempt. Conforming to the findings obtained as a result of the article, it was determined that the Bureaucratic Coup of 30 May 1876 had similar characteristics to the coups that took place in the Ottoman State.
Yazar isimleri: ['İbrahim SATI']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey Üniversitesi Edebiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/efad/issue/70150/1103753
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2375391
