Makale Başlığı: Determination of the host range of Pectobacterium polaris causing bacterial soft rot disease
Özet: Aims: Pectobacterium polaris is a novel species of Pectobacterium taxa, which was reported in different regions of the world and has been recently detected in Turkey. In this study, in order to determine the host range of this novel species, two representative strains were evaluated in terms of their pathogenicity on several host plants, and it is aimed to determine plant species under the risk of the pathogen.Methods and Results: P. polaris strains NV3 and NV19, isolated from potato plants showing blackleg symptoms in Nevşehir province during the vegetation period of 2019, were used for artificial inoculation. Bacterial suspension of both strains was inoculated by injecting into the red cabbage, broccoli, cauliflower, onion, garlic, carrot, tomato, pepper, eggplant, cucumber, squash, melon, watermelon, lettuce, sunflower and sugar beet plants. The appearance of the disease symptoms indicated that both strains of P. polaris caused disease in all the plant species inoculated artificially. Viable bacterial colonies were re-isolated from infected plant tissue.Conclusions: Pectobacterium species are very destructive bacterial plant pathogens that cause soft rot on numerous plant species. It has been determined that P. polaris, which has been reported in different regions of the world and in Turkey as a new emerging pathogen within in a wide host range. Disease protection precautions should be taken in the regions where the pathogen is isolated for the first time, and especially pathogen transmission should be prevented to the clean production areas by potato tubers.Significance and Impact of the Study: All tested plant species were determined as potential hosts for P. polaris. The risk status of the pathogen on these plants, which have economic importance in Turkey, was determined for the first time with this study
Yazar isimleri: ['Murat OZTURK']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Mustafa Kemal Üniversitesi Tarım Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mkutbd/issue/71394/1064147
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2217300
