Makale Başlığı: Examination of Emotional Hunger Status, Hopelessness Levels and Food Consumption of Normal and Obese Individuals According to Body Mass Index
Özet: Objective: To determine whether there is a relationship between emotional hunger states, levels of hopelessness and food consumption in individuals as body mass index.Material and Method: The study was conducted with 200 participants aged 18-65 years who were of normal body weight or obese. Subjects were interviewed about their demographic characteristics and disease status using a questionnaire. Nutritional status of patients recording of food intake over 3 days emotional appetite status. Emotional Appetite Questionnaire; the level of hopelessness was evaluated with the Beck Hopelessness Scale. Individual anthropometric measurements such as height (cm), body weight (kg), body fat mass (kg), body fat percentage (%), lean body mass (kg), total body water (kg), waist and hip circumference (cm) were obtained body mass index (BMI-kg/m2) was calculated.Results: The mean body mass index of women and men participating in the study was 26.4±5.55 kg/m2 and 29.6±4.85 kg/m2, respectively. The positive and negative scores of the emotional appetite questionnaire did not differ between the genders of the individuals participating in the study (p>0.05). It was found that overweight women had higher positive and negative emotional appetite scores than normal women (p<0.05). In men, no significant association was found between body mass index and emotional appetite questionnaire (p>0.05). A positive correlation was found between body mass index, energy (kcal), protein (g), fat (g) and fiber intake values, and positive emotional appetite questionnaire score (p<0.05). It was found that the scores and levels of hopelessness of individuals were not statistically significantly correlated with gender and body mass index (p>0.05). In addition, there was no significant relationship between emotional appetite and level of hopelessness (p>0.05).Conclusion: There is no relationship between body mass index and emotional appetite status in males, while the increase in body mass index in females increases appetite in positive and negative emotional situations. Emotional appetite was found to be positively associated with energy intake although it was weakly related to protein and fat consumption. It was found that there was no relationship between food consumption, gender, body mass index and level of hopelessness.
Yazar isimleri: ['Esra KÖSELER']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Mayıs 2022
Dergi ismi: İzmir Katip Çelebi Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ikcusbfd/issue/70141/1005951
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2014509
