Makale Başlığı: The Effects of Respiratory Functions and Respiratory Muscle Strength on Exercise Capacity and Quality of Life in Patients with Ankylosing Spondylitis
Özet: This study aims to examine the effects of impaired respiratory functions and respiratory muscle strength (RMS) on exercise capacity and quality of life in patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS). In the study, 28 AS patients (female: 20, male: 8; age: 41.93±9.49) and 28 healthy individuals (female: 20, male: 8; age: 39.61±10.78) were evaluated. Descriptive information, clinical histories and chest expansion measurements of the patients were obtained. Respiratory function tests (RFT) were measured with a spirometer and RMS was measured with a respiratory pressure meter. Disease activity was assessed with the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index (BASFI). Functional exercise capacity was measured using the 6-min walk test (6MWT) and vital signs. SF-36 quality of life scale was used to evaluate the quality of life of the patient group. The average values of RFT, RMS, 6MWT and vital signs of patients with AS were found to be lower than the control group. FEV1, 6MWT, leg fatigue before and after 6MWT and heart rate after 6MWT parameters were significantly lower in AS patients than in control group (p<0.05). In addition, a negative correlation was found between RFT, RMS and BASFI score of the patient group and a positive correlation was found between 6MWT, chest expansion and quality of life parameters. In conclusion, this study showed that the impairments in the musculoskeletal system and respiratory functions in AS patients decrease their respiratory parameters, exercise capacity and quality of life. Exercises that increase RMS should be included in the exercise programs for AS.
Yazar isimleri: ['Şule ÖZBAY KAYA', 'Özgür BOSTANCI', 'Muhammet Hakan MAYDA']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Gümüşhane Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gumussagbil/issue/72733/1136090
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2508481
