Makale Başlığı: MONITORING AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES BY USING REMOTE SENSING TECHNIQUES
Özet: We live in the information age which aims to reach the information directly as well quickly, reliably and at a lower cost. Thanks to advanced space technologies, the earth is observed periodically through satellites which makes it possible to obtain historical data and monitor changes on the earth’s surface. Data obtained from satellites can be used in many fields by conducting various analyses.  Analyzed images obtained from satellites with high spatial resolution could give chance to monitor periodic changes in vegetation quickly, reliably and at a lower cost. These analyzes are actively used in studies such as monitoring agricultural lands, determining crop patterns, detecting time-dependent crop or vegetation change, yield forecasts and monitoring plant health. In developed countries, thanks to improved technologies, crop yield forecasts are assessed by using satellite data. Obtaining the information of crop yield forecasts in advance is very important in terms of planning agricultural production, deciding minimum purchase price and reducing speculation. In addition, the analyses carried out with crop yield forecasting methods on large areas give results in a short time in a reliable way. These studies are closely related to the producer and private sector as well as the public sector. Crop yield forecasting and plant health monitoring studies, which have become applicable with Remote Sensing (RS) technologies, are an area that has been intensively researched for the last 30 years, produced publications. Due to these, crop yield forecasting and plant health monitoring studies continue to be relevant.In this study, studies in our country and around the world on monitoring plant health and crop yield estimation with RS technologies were evaluated in terms of method. As a result of the literature review, it was decided to cover articles that were important in terms of subject, content and method used in this study. Additionally, these articles were evaluated by separating them into two main topics: machine learning and band ratio models.
Yazar isimleri: ['Şelale BALAMBAR', 'Zahra KHODA KARİMİ', 'Fatma ÖZTÜRK', 'Şeyma BERK ACET', 'Özge IŞIK PEKKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 4 Temmuz 2021
Dergi ismi: GSI Journals Serie C: Advancements in Information Sciences and Technologies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aist/issue/63581/970437
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1877219
