Makale Başlığı: WAREHOUSE LOCATION SELECTION FOR DISASTER LOGISTICS WITH DEMATEL-BASED TOPSIS METHOD AND SET COVERING MODEL: A CASE STUDY OF AEGEAN REGION
Özet: Disaster logistics covers all activities (planning, information flow, storage, distribution, etc.) carried out to minimize the needs that occur in adverse natural events. Among the activities carried out, the storage activity has a critical importance for the rapid response in case of disaster. For this reason, the most important problem to be dealt with within the scope of disaster logistics is the selection of the appropriate warehouse location. A two-stage method is used in the study to determine optimum warehouse location/locations. In the first stage of the study, the DEMATEL method, one of the Multi-Criteria Decision Making methods, is used to rate the evaluation criteria, while the TOPSIS method is integrated with the DEMATEL method to rank alternative areas. In the study, the provinces in the Aegean Region are considered alternative warehouse areas, and these provinces are rated according to the number of populations in the provinces, investment cost, infrastructure status, and risk levels. According to the results of DEMATEL-based TOPSIS method, the score values appear as İzmir, Aydın, Denizli, Manisa, Uşak, Afyonkarahisar, Kütahya and Muğla, respectively, from high to low. In the second phase of the study, the Set Covering Model is developed and integrated with the DEMATEL-based TOPSIS method. As a result of the developed Set Covering Model, establishment decisions are made in Denizli, Muğla, and Balıkesir provinces. In the study, it is thought that making the installation decisions that will cover the whole region, will be ensured that the response to disaster events that may occur in the future will be accelerated.
Yazar isimleri: ['Onur DERSE']
Yayın Yılı: 3 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kahramanmaraş Sütçü İmam Üniversitesi Mühendislik Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://jes.ksu.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/73671/1159925
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2587883
