Makale Başlığı: INTELLECTUAL VALUE-ADDED COEFFICIENT (VAIC) IN HEALTHCARE MANAGEMENT
Özet: Purpose- Businesses are obliged to measure and manage Intellectual capital (IC) because of its importance. The literature focuses on thedefinition of intellectual capital, its measurement, reporting in accounting, examining its effect on performance, and ultimately themanagement of intellectual capital in terms of businesses. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of the Intellectual Value AddedCoefficient (VAIC) of a university hospital, which has important resources in terms of high-level knowledge and skill use.Methodology- Resource-based view theory is a leading paradigm in the field of strategic management. The main focus of this theory is toachieve sustainability by providing profit and efficiency by using strategic resources effectively. The theoretical structure of our study is basedon the source-based view theory. In this direction, the financial data for the three years were evaluated by using the visible and invisiblesources, the Intellectual Value Added Coefficient (VAIC) model.Findings- The revolving fund and the added budget (general budget) capital accounts of the university hospital, which are semi-autonomouspublic enterprises, were handled separately, and the data set that would form the intellectual capital values was determined from the sumof the two. The analysis reveals that capital employed (CEE) employed by years has a greater impact on intellectual capital than othercomponents. Human capital has a greater impact on university hospital efficiency (ATO) than other intellectual capital components. The firsttwo years of human capital (HCE) have a greater impact on university hospital profitability (ROA) than any other component of intellectualcapital.Conclusion- Based on the findings of the analysis, it will make a unique contribution as it will focus on a new approach in the managementand cost analysis applications where intellectual capital is effective in the efficiency evaluations of university hospitals. The VAIC Modelshould be adopted and implemented by university administrators.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: PressAcademia Procedia
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/pap/issue/71641/1152792
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2571214
