Makale Başlığı: Breastfeeding Experiences of Postpartum Women: A Qualitative Study
Özet: Objectives: This study was planned as a qualitative research in order to examine and explain the breastfeeding experience of women during puerperium in detail.Methods: In the research, the phenomenological approach, the subject area of which is 'life experiences of puerperal women', was used from qualitative research designs. The phenomenon examined in the research is the concept of "breastfeeding". The research was carried out with puerperant women living in Istanbul between 01.12.2021 -01.04.2022. Mother Descriptive Information Form and semi-structured In-depth Individual Interview questionnaire were used as data collection tools.Results: As a result of the analysis of the women's expressions regarding their breastfeeding experiences, 4 main themes were formed: Attitude, Emotion, Thought and Support. The theme of attitude consists of sub-themes as positive and negative attitudes. While positive attitudes in the breastfeeding process create breastfeeding, accurate information about breast milk, attempts to increase milk and experience; It was determined that negative attitudes caused breastfeeding, wrong information about breast milk, wrong nutrition and breastfeeding problems.Conclusion: As a result of the research, it was determined that mothers had problems especially in initiating breastfeeding and they frequently resorted to formula especially because of the baby's anxiety about not being satiated. In addition, it was determined that information on breastfeeding and the importance of breast milk affected breastfeeding positively. It was also determined that the support of the spouse, family and health professional motivated the puerperant women. However, it was determined that persistent attitudes and behaviors about breastfeeding affected mothers negatively.
Yazar isimleri: ['Özden TANDOĞAN', 'Meltem MECDİ KAYDIRAK', 'Şeyma APAYDIN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Kadın Sağlığı Hemşireliği Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kashed/issue/73625/1158559
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2582465
