Makale Başlığı: Identifying Traces of Some of the Today’s Social Dynamics in Orkhon Inscriptions
Özet: A human being is a social entity and has such an identity as s/he is a part of interpersonal relations. As a requirement of being social, people live together and try to influence each other. Some personal and social rights and rules begin to form in this interaction and communication process. The people as a part of society act no longer according to their own desire and will and they have to act and live within the boundaries drawn by society. Thus, each society begins to raise its own individuals in accordance with its own national and spiritual values. The human being as a part of the society follows the path of self-development within the framework of these values and tries to be accepted in his/her society. The Turks have shown a rapid transition process towards becoming a social community and becoming a nation since they were first seen in the foothills of the Tengri Mountains. It is possible to see the traces of the Turks’ sociability in their oral traditions and written documents. Their oral narratives and written works verify that the Turks have a rich social accumulation in terms of religion, language, culture, history, politics, economy, sociology, demography, ideas, art, and artwork. This social accumulation can be revealed with the reference of the works. In this study, we will try to determine the existence and use of the social dynamics in our first written document, the Orkhon Inscriptions, in the reference of the lines in the inscriptions, by focusing on definition, conceptual field, current place and function of some social dynamics such as religion, adherence to and rule of law, merit, consultation and community benefit which the Turks have. Through this study, we aim to reveal that these social dynamics existed in Turkish society even centuries ago and have had their effect on society as it is today.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Cihat ÜSTÜN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Erzincan Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/erzisosbil/issue/70984/1087931
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2310018
