Makale Başlığı: Where Does Tashbeeh Fit into Bayaan Science: A Review of the Classical Approach
Özet: This work aims to discuss the place of tashbeeh (simile) in bayaan science through its manifestation in classical writings. Bayaan science is one of the subbranches of balagha science. In general, the science of bayaan deals with figurative speeches and how to deduce the secondary meanings of words. Tasbeeh is one of the expression types of bayaan science. However, there is uncertainty about its placement within bayaan, for tashbeeh is not a type of expression that has a secondary meaning. We will try to figure out the classical scholar's points of view on this issue by utilizing the classical descriptions of tasbeeh and majaaz (metaphor) terms. Information on the distinctive features of the science of bayaan will be our other source of data to be utilized. Our main hypothesis is this: the science of bayaan is based on the distinction between metaphor and the literal meaning, and its main subject is statements based on inference. In the tashbeeh section of classical works, there are two different discussions that shed light on the feature of tashbeeh. First, the distinction between tashbeeh and tashaabuh (likeness), which suggests that tashbeeh is not just a direct statement. The second discussion is on whether to consider the so-called baleegh tashbeeh (exaggerated simile) as a simile or a metaphor. Discussions about this genre, which is accepted as a simile by the dominant view, show that the simile is not a metaphor in general. Regardless of the outcome of the discussion, such a discussion's existence shows that simile is not a metaphor. Metaphor, on the other hand, is one of the well-defined terms in classical systematic balagha. It is using the words or the phrases in meanings other than their lexical meanings. The crucial term in the definition is wadh', which means to set the words on specific meanings. Balagha scholars fixed the realm of wadh’ on the realm of conversation and excluded the other realms. Taftâzânî (1390 AD) lists the expressions that are not used in their wadh' meaning as follows: metaphors, kinaayas (allusions), mistakes, makeups, and transmissions. There is no mention of tashbeeh in this list, indicating that tashbeeh is a direct expression.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nazife Nihal İNCE']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Sakarya Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sakaifd/issue/73889/1167028
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2616156
