Makale Başlığı: Getting Older in the Modern World from America to Japan: Analysis of “Harry and Tonto” and “Tokyo Story” Films in the Context of Psychology
Özet: The distinction between individualistic and collectivist cultures is one of the most used concepts in social sciences at the point of separating communities. While individualistic communities express the cultural construction in which individual life comes to the fore, active social norms draw attention in collectivist cultures. Although the individualist-collectivist culture distinction is supported in the literature in order to understand societies, it has been stated by the researchers that this distinction is insufficient in terms of understanding social dynamics. In this context, it has been argued that the concept of modernization is important in understanding the distinction between individualism and collectivism. At this point, the distinction between normative and relational individualism and collectivism put forward by Kağıtçıbaşı has been a much more effective distinction in terms of finding cultural differences and similarities. With this distinction, cultural distinctions have been understood at two different levels, both individualistic and social. The self-formation and development of the individual is thus made much more understandable. Within the scope of this article, “Harry and Tonto” reflecting American culture and “Tokyo Story” reflecting Japanese culture, It has been interpreted by making use of the individualism-collectivism distinction in the literature. The films discussed support the autonomous-relational self-model. In this context, it is aimed to examine these two films in the context of cultural similarities and differences, through Kağıtçıbaşı's normative and relational individualism-collectivism classification, Autonomous-Relational Self-Model and some geriatric psychology theories. The psychological analyses of the characters in the films have been tried to be understood both in terms of their selves and their temporal and spatial contexts. Due to the fact that elderly characters take the lead in both films, geriatric psychology theories are also included while comparing the films.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gülbahar BAŞTUĞ', 'Ömer Faruk ALBAYRAK', 'Aynur GOJASOY', 'Zehra İFTİRAK', 'Lamia MÜFTÜOĞLU', 'Gizem SARAY']
Yayın Yılı: 5 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Ankara Sağlık Hizmetleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ashd/issue/62930/1047436
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2157342
