Makale Başlığı: INVESTIGATION OF JOB SATISFACTION LEVELS OF POLİCE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL
Özet: The aim of this study was to examine the job satisfaction levels of police department personnel. For this purpose, the Minnesota job satisfaction scale was applied to police officers with different titles (police officer: 272; chief police officer: 6; assistant commissioner: 17; inspector: 11) working in Gaziantep Provincial Police Department. A personal information form developed by the researcher was used to collect information about the independent variables. There were descriptive information such as age, gender, marital status, job title, years of work in the profession, and the number of people working and living in the city. The Minnesota Job Satisfaction Scale, which consists of 20 questions developed by Weiss, Dawis, England, and Lofquist in 1967 and adapted into Turkish by Oran (1989), was used as a scale. SPSS 20.0 program was used for the analysis of the data obtained, and the significance was examined at the p<0.05 level. After it was determined that the data showed normal distribution, Independent Sample t-Test for gender and marital status variables and One Way Anova analyzes for other variables were used. As a result of the analysis of the data obtained, it was determined that the variables of gender and educational status of the participants had a significant effect on job satisfaction (p<0.05). Job satisfaction of the participants; marital status, age, number of people living and working in the household, duration of life in Gaziantep do not differ significantly on the title and duration of duty (p>0.05). As a result, it can be said that job satisfaction levels of law enforcement personnel are affected by gender and educational status. It can be said that the gender of the individuals and the education they receive have a significant effect on their job satisfaction perceptions in their professional life.
Yazar isimleri: ['Uğur ABAKAY']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Gaziantep Üniversitesi Ayıntab Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gunaad/issue/67558/1018020
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2059312
