Makale Başlığı: The Assessment of Anesthesia Techniques Used in Patients Undergoing Cesarean Section: Comparison of Day and Night Shift Periods
Özet: In our study at Uludağ University Medical Faculty Hospital between the periods of 2012 January and 2013 December, we aimed to evaluate cesarean indications, anesthesia techniques used for the cesarean sections and the factors affecting the technical choice during day and night shift periods. Data of 1025 cesarean section patients and neonates were recorded retrospectively. Day and night shifts were determined and patients were divided into two groups accordingly. Fifty-one percent of patients were operated on during day shifts, while 49% of patients were operated on during night shifts. General anesthesia was administered to %76.4, spinal anesthesia was administered to 14.4%, combined spinal epidural (CSE) anesthesia was administered to 6.2% and epidural anesthesia was administered to 3% of the patients. Spinal and general anesthesia were used equally in day and night shifts whereas CSE anesthesia rate was higher during day shifts (P=0.003). In 91.3% of patients who were administered regional anesthesia the procedures were successful, whereas in 8.7%, they were not. Failed regional anesthesia rate was similar in both groups. The systolic and diastolic blood pressures were statistically lower (P=0.001) and gestational age was higher in the day shift group (P<0.001). The preeclampsia rate was higher, the Apgar scores at 1 and 5 minutes and birth weight were significantly lower in the night shift group (P˂0.001). A previous cesarean section, plasentation abnormalities and vaginal problems as indications for cesarean section were significantly higher in the day shift group (P˂0.001, P=0.003, P˂0.05). In night shift group acute fetal distress (AFD) rate was significantly higher (P˂0.001). Regional anesthesia rates are lower than those of other studies. Factors like professional experience of the night shift personnel, surgical team’s perspective on regional anesthesia and obtaining sufficient materials affect the use of regional anesthesia during night shifts. It is appropriate to decide the most suitable anesthesia technique for both the mother and the baby by correctly informing the patient by an obstetrician as well as an anesthetist.
Yazar isimleri: ['Özlem ÖZKUMİT', 'Ayşe Neslihan BALKAYA', 'Elif EYGİ', 'Şükran ŞAHİN', 'Sefika Gulsen KORFALİ']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Black Sea Journal of Health Science
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bshealthscience/issue/68048/1104321
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2377687
