Makale Başlığı: A New Definition in Ophthalmological Disorders: Ignored Eye Syndrome (IES-22)
Özet: Objective: To provide a positive contribution to early diagnosis and correct treatment by bringing a new definition to the problem of lagophthalmos that occurs due to physiological reasons.Design: IES-22 was compared with other causes of lagophthalmos when determining exclusion and diagnostic criteria, and a completely separate definition was made. For the definitive diagnosis of IES-22, in the absence of exclusion criteria, at least 1 of the major criteria and at least 2 of the minor criteria were considered sufficient.Metot: IES-22 exclusion criteria: It was defined as the presence of any pathological condition causing lagophthalmos in the eyes, eyelids, and eye orbit. The IES-22 diagnostic criteria were divided into major and minor. Major criteria were accepted as primary and minor criteria were considered as secondary causes. Major criteria: Small eyelids, congenital exophthalmos, protrusion of the lower and upper eyelids together or separately outside the limbus, the lower orbital rim of the eye than usual, and large eyes. Minor criteria: Having a family history, not being able to sleep with the light on, waking up first thing in the morning, foreign body sensation in the eye, presence of eye pain, and watering in the eye was determined. Also, the IES-22 rating; was performed as Grade I (mild), Grade II (middle), and Grade III (severe).Conclusion: IES-22 may be a new definition in cases of sleeping with eyes open. Since there is no underlying disease and it does not affect our daily life for a long time, it has the feature of being ignored. In addition, the presence of congenital factors within the IES-22 major criteria makes it appropriate to conduct clinical studies based on genetics.
Yazar isimleri: ['Abdülhekim YARBAĞ', 'Hayrullah YAZAR']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Doğal Yaşam Tıbbı Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jnlm/issue/71467/1139237
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2520330
