Makale Başlığı: Literary Works with Mathematics
Özet: Maths, it is a science that encompasses life beyond numbers, concepts, formulas and calculations. In addition, mathematics is a multidimensional structure that can be a goal or a tool depending on the situation it is in. It is inevitable for this structure to establish a relationship with literature, an art field that can create imaginary or fictional worlds and offer different experiences to people. This situation gives people the opportunity to offer different experiences with mathematics and literature. Literature, like mathematics, has no definite boundaries. While literature makes mathematics come alive in the mind, it also eliminates the idea that it is boring and inaccessible. While writing a novel or a story in terms of literature; Elements such as place, time, place, hero, event must come together. The inclusion of mathematics while creating these elements carries the fiction to higher levels. For this reason, the aim of the research is; To examine the mathematics in literature is to discover the reflections of mathematics in literature. The mathematical situations in these works, the events that can be explained by mathematics and the effect of mathematics on the works were investigated. In the research, the information obtained through document analysis, one of the qualitative research methods, was interpreted. It has been tried to determine the relations of the authors with mathematics and how they placed mathematics in the fiction they created. As a result of the study, it was concluded that there is a high level of mathematical knowledge and operation in these works. It can be said that the mathematics embedded in these fictions and stories is not randomly but deliberately constructed. This becomes even more evident when the authors' ties to mathematics are considered.
Yazar isimleri: ['Adem DOĞAN', 'Büşra YAZICI']
Yayın Yılı: 19 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Sivas Cumhuriyet Üniversitesi Eğitim Bilimleri Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cebed/issue/73073/1137498
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2513860
