Makale Başlığı: Zajjaj’s İnfluence in the Work of Zamakhshari
Özet: Jar Allah Al-Zamakhshari (538/1144) is a Mu’tazilite Muslim scholar. He is known as one of the most important linguists in Arabic literature. He benefitted greatly from some of the earlier Tafsir writers. He worked on Zajjaj’s Meani al-Qur’an and I’rabuhu (311/923), when he wrote his best-known work, Al-Kashshaf Al-Kashshaf is one of the famous works produced in the Dirayah Tafsir method. This study examines the influence of Zajjaj’s work on Zamakshari’s Al-Kashshaf. Zamakhshari utilized Tafsir techniques and methods used by Zajjaj, who lived two centuries before him. The quotations that he made from Zajjaj in terms of the Arabic language, literature, Qira’at, and grammar are all aimed at better explaining the words in the interpretation of The Qur’an. Although Zamakhshari was not always in agreement with Zajjaj's methods, he made these quotations the basis of his thoughts. For Zamakhshari, getting the benefits of Zajjaj’s work is not thought to be solely a matter of understanding. In addition, there were aspects in which he inspired him in terms of tafsir techniques. For example, it is possible to say that Zamakhshari's method of hypothetical questions and answers is influenced by Zeccâc work. In other words, both scholars start with the explanation of the previous linguists when explaining the word of the Qur'an. Although he had different religious ideas, Zamakhshari’s quotations from Zajjaj indicate that he exhibited a scientific approach that was far from Taassub (Bigotry). It can be said that this attitude continued in the following periods and caused Zamakhshari to be followed with interest by the scholars of Ahl al-Sunnah. This study is not only contended with the examination of the quotations but also includes the comparison between the reference work of Zajjaj and Zamakhshari’s Kashshaf and provides additional information in places where it is deemed necessary. Thus, it is intended to show the influence of Zajjaj, an Ahl Sunnah wal Jamaah scholar, over Mu’tezilite scholar Zamakhsari’s Tafsir understanding. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatih KANCA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Tefsir Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tader/issue/73215/1134253
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2500947
