Makale Başlığı: EXAMINATION OF TEACHER'S OPINIONS ON LEADERSHIP STYLES OF SCHOOL MANAGERS IN TERMS OF DIFFERENT TYPES OF VARIABLES: THE CASE OF IZMIR
Özet: The role of school principals in the regulation of educational environments in schools is quite large. Teachers' relations with school principals are reflected in education. For this reason, the leadership styles of school administrators significantly affect their relations with teachers, the activities in the school and the climate of the school. For this reason, it is important in many ways to determine how the leadership styles of school principals are perceived by teachers and to reveal the factors that affect this perception. In recent years, different strategies have been tried by institutions to solve the problems related to the quality and quality of education, and in order to improve the conditions, school administrators have turned to in-service trainings to increase the capacity with special trainings. Discussions and researches have increasingly recognized that investments should be made in the training of school administrators so that students and individual development can rise. Research in this context is valuable in terms of preventing energy loss and channeling it into effective solutions.This research aims to examine teachers' perceptions of school administrators' leadership styles and the change in perception according to different types of variables. The sample of the research consists of 216 teachers working in primary, secondary and high schools in İzmir province/districts in the 2021-2022 academic year. In this study, which was carried out using the relational survey and correlation research model, which is one of the quantitative research methods, "Personal Information Form" and "Leadership Styles of School Principals Scale" were used in the data collection process. As a result of the analysis of the data obtained, it was found that the perception of the school administrators' leadership style according to the perception of the teachers was at a "moderate" level and there was a significant difference in the leadership styles of the participants according to the perception of the leadership style exhibited by the school administrators, according to the teachers' age variable, gender variable, education level, seniority year and branch variable. There was no difference, but the variable of the type of school studied was found to be significant. As a result of the double comparison Post Hoc test to determine the reason for this, it was determined that the source of significance was between primary school and secondary school and between the participants working in primary school.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yücel ÇAKIR']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Mayıs 2022
Dergi ismi: Uygulamada Eğitim ve Yönetim Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ueybid/issue/70089/1085675
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2301333
