Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Different Transport Distances and Season on Meat Quality Characteristics of Broiler Chicken in Commercial Slaughter Conditions
Özet: The aim of the study was to determine the effect of season and transport distance on meat quality characteristics of broiler chicken in commercial transport and slaughter conditions. The study was carried out on Ross 308 broiler chickens reared under similar commercial conditions from three different seasons (summer, autumn and winter) and three different transport distances (40 km, 70 km and 130 km). Meat samples were taken on July, October, and December for summer, autumn and winter seasons, respectively during 2018. Broilers in trucks were waited in holding barn for 1 h. A total of 135 broilers, 15 samples per transport distance, were randomly selected to determine meat quality characteristics, (3 seasons × 3 transport distances × 15 samples). Meat colour parameters, pH4h, drip loss, cooking loss and Warner Bratzler shear force (WBSF) was determined. In winter, pH4h, a*24h and b*24h were higher than other seasons, while L*24h, drip loss and WBSF were lower than other seasons. The incidence of PSE (pale, soft, exudative) meat was the highest in summer (26.67%), while the incidence of DFD (dark, firm, dry) meat was the highest in winter (53.33%). The lowest incidence of normal breast meat was in winter season. In conclusion, incidence of normal breast meat decreased when broiler chickens were transported in winter. However, incidence of PSE meat was the highest in summer season. Transport distance affected adversely the some meat quality characteristics and this effect was most pronounced in summer season. In order to improve the meat quality, as much as possible, transportation of broiler chickens should be carried out within thermal comfort zone ranges and in short distance transport.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bülent TEKE']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Kocatepe Veteriner Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kvj/issue/71175/1058965
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2196536
