Makale Başlığı: Immigrant Children's Literature: An Overview of Children's Books in the Case of Germany and Bulgaria in Search of the Concept of the OtherAbstract:
Özet: The concept of the other has been a concept that has been widely used in the world of literature in the second half of the twentieth century, and today it has started to be on the agenda more and more with the increasing globalization process. In literature, there are more sub-literary types that are marginalized together with the concept of the other. One of them is minority literature. In this sense, the literature of the Bulgarian Turks, which is discussed in this study, is seen as the other literature. Child and youth literature, which is another sub-genre, has been expressed as other literature or a sub-type for a long time. In this study, Turkish Children's literature in Bulgaria, which brings together the examples of subtitles that are seen as both other, is discussed. Germany and Bulgaria are at the forefront of the countries where the Turkish population lives intensively outside of Turkey. Children's Literature, on the other hand, has emerged as a new discipline that has been frequently mentioned recently. With the study, it is aimed to introduce the children's books produced by Turkish writers and poets in the context of children's literature in the example of Germany and Bulgaria. The sample of this study consists of randomly selected 50 children's books published in Germany and 50 children's books published in Bulgaria. In the examples of both countries, the translated books and the books of Turkish writers and poets who immigrated to Turkey were included in the study. Children's books play an important role in terms of teaching the Turkish language to the new generations and ensuring the transfer of culture for the Turks who continue their existence apart from their motherland. They also have a special importance in that the traces of the concept of the other can be traced in children's books. For this reason, one part of the study consists of children's books written by Turkish writers and poets living in Germany, and the other part consists of children's books produced by Turkish writers and poets living in Bulgaria.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sibel TUNA', 'Hikmet ASUTAY']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: KARE
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kare/issue/73727/1142203
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2531956
