Makale Başlığı: Investigation of the Effect of Leaky Gut on COVID-19 Clinic
Özet: Aim: In the course of the COVID-19 pandemic, in millions of cases were observed those of some patients do not exhibit any symptoms whereas some others are hospitalized with having fatal outcomes. One of the most significant findings is that patients with existing comorbidities are extremely exposed to severe clinical conditions developed due to excessive inflammatory response. That is to say, the indicative cause of chronic inflammation may be bacterial translocation derived from the impaired intestinal mucosal barriers. This study is aimed to investigate the probable relations between the impaired intestinal barrier integrity and which would be associated with severity of COVID-19 clinical conditions.Material and Methods: According to the clinical and laboratory findings, the patients were classified into three groups as mild, moderate, and severe clinical conditions. All patients’ blood samples were collected on the first admission to the hospital. Serum concentrations of lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP), were analyzed to evaluate the intestinal barrier function and bacterial translocation. Results: The proportions of those with high LBP levels among all the groups were significantly different (p<0.001). The proportion of the patients with high LBP levels in the mild patient group (65.4%) was significantly lower than those with moderate (100%) and with severe clinical conditions (95.2%) (p<0.05 for each).Conclusion: In recent years, it has been clearly demonstrated that the functions of the intestines are much more than the digestive function, and that the intestinal microbiota and mucosal barrier integrity have a great impact on the immune system. These results would indicate that the impaired intestinal barrier integrity and bacterial translocation might be effective in severe COVID-19 development.
Yazar isimleri: ['Cihadiye ÖZTÜRK', 'Banu Hümeyra KESKİN', 'Nevin INCE', 'Eda KAYABAŞI', 'Sare KAYA', 'Şengül CANGÜR', 'Pınar YILDIZ GÜLHAN', 'Mehmet Cihat DEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Sağlık Bilimlerinde Değer
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sabd/issue/72485/1082004
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2286419
