Makale Başlığı: COMPARISON OF SCIENCE TEACHER CANDIDATES' THEORETICAL KNOWLEDGE ABOUT MATTER STATE CHANGE AND DAILY LIFE CONTEXTS
Özet: The aim of this research is to determine the conceptual knowledge of science teacher candidates belonging to the 'Matter and Change' unit, to reveal their contextual knowledge on this subject and to determine the level of correlation between contexts and theoretical knowledge. Case study, which is one of the qualitative research approaches, was used in the research. The sample of the study consists of a total of 40 science teacher candidates studying at a state university in the north-east of Turkey in the fall semester of 2021-2022. The research data were collected within the scope of Physics-III course. Structured interview was used as a data collection tool to examine the context examples of the state change of the substance of science teacher candidates. This structured interview prepared by experts consists of seven questions. Content analysis was used in the analysis of the data obtained from the study. In line with the data obtained from the research, it was concluded that the teacher candidates provided orientation to the theoretical information based on rote memorization for the concepts of "melting-freezing" related to the subject of state change, that they had errors in the concepts of "evaporation-condensation" and that they did not have sufficient conceptual knowledge of the concepts of "sublimation fracture". Since it is important for teacher candidates to eliminate the misconceptions created by the concepts, it is recommended to carry out lectures containing different methods and techniques instead of traditional teaching. Since the aim of the activities constructed with context-based learning is to increase the learning desire of the students to science courses by presenting scientific concepts through the contexts determined from daily life, it is necessary to diversify the contexts, to encounter context-based questions frequently, to create course designs in which the contexts are integrated and to present these environments to the teacher candidates.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hakan Şevki AYVACI', 'Cansu UÇMAK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Öğretim Teknolojileri ve Öğretmen Eğitimi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jitte/issue/70720/1085745
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2301602
