Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of the Effect of Normal and Risky Birth Simulation Practices on Satisfaction and Self-Confidence of Midwifery Student
Özet: The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of normal and risky birth simulation applications on the satisfaction and self-confidence of midwifery students. This semi-experimental study was carried out with 132 people between February 2021 and July 2021 in the laboratory of the faculty of health sciences, midwifery department of a university. The data were collected with the information form developed by the researchers in line with the literature, the student satisfaction, and self confidence in learning scale. All statistical calculations were analyzed using SPSS 21.0 statistical package program. Results were evaluated at p<0.05 significance level. The mean age of the participants was 22.20±1.66. 75% of the students stated that simulation training was beneficial in clinical practice.  In the study, the mean score for the student satisfaction and self-confidence in learning scale was 48.69±8.49. It was found that there was a statistically significant difference between the students' ability to reflect their theoretical education into practice after the simulation applications, the development of case management, the development of birth and risky birth skills, and the learning satisfaction and self-confidence scores, which are the sub-dimensions of student satisfaction and self-confidence in learning (p<0.01).It was concluded that simulation training is beneficial in clinical practice, increases the rate of students finding themselves competent in the clinic, and contributes to developing the skills of birth and risky birth, and case management. Simulators should be used more frequently in midwifery education and practices since simulation is effective on students' self-confidence and satisfaction.
Yazar isimleri: ['Tuğba YILMAZ ESENCAN', 'Ayça DEMİR YILDIRIM', 'Kübra DAŞTAN', 'Ayşegül GÜDER']
Yayın Yılı: 14 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: İnönü Üniversitesi Sağlık Hizmetleri Meslek Yüksek Okulu Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/inonusaglik/issue/73147/1051050
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2166588
