Makale Başlığı: Investigating Correlation between Fear of Missing Out at Work (FoMO) and Career Satisfaction
Özet: Purpose: In this study, it was aimed to investigate the possible relationship between fear of missing out in the workplace (GCC) and career satisfaction. In addition, the variation of the mean of variables in terms of various demographic characteristics was examined.Design/Method: The questionnaires of Budnick et al. (2020) were used to measure the fear of missing out developments in the workplace, and the questionnaires of Greenhaus et al. (1990) were used to measure the level of career satisfaction. The population of the field research carried out consists of individuals working in Turkey. The data were collected using the survey method and a total of 405 people were reached with the convenience sampling method. SPSS program was used in the analysis process.Results: The FoMO level measured according to the research findings is 2.81. When the sub-dimensions are examined, it is seen that the level of informational exclusion is 3.03 and the level of relational exclusion is 2.59. Career satisfaction level is 3.30. According to this, it is seen that the general FoMO level is below the average according to the 5-point Likert scale, and the career satisfaction level is above the average. The distribution is normal.The Cronbach Alpha value of the FoMO scale at work is 0.946. According to the factor analysis, two factor structures were formed. The total explained variance is 80.58%. Factor loads vary between 0.714 and 0.895. The Cronbach Alpha value of the career satisfaction scale is 0.891. According to the factor analysis, a single factor structure was formed.. The total explained variance is 69.80%. Factor loads vary between 0.752 and 0.875. All results are also consistent with the original studyCorrelation analysis was used to determine the relationship between variables. Accordingly, no statistically significant relationship was found between the fear of missing out on developments in the workplace and the levels of career satisfaction.A number of significant differences in the mean of variables in terms of various demographic characteristics have been identified and reported. According to this, the FoMO levels of employees in public institutions, including their sub-dimensions, are lower than those of private institution employees. Career satisfaction levels of employees in public institutions are higher than those of private institutions. During the pandemic process, the career satisfaction levels of those working from home are higher than those working at the workplace. It has been determined that as the age level increases, the levels of FoMO in the workplace decrease, while the career satisfaction levels increase with the age level. It has been determined that as the level of education increases, the level of career satisfaction decreases. As the education level decreased, it was determined that the levels of relational exclusion increased. It has been determined that as the professional experience increases, the level of career satisfaction decreases. In addition, it was determined that those with less professional experience had higher levels of relational exclusion. It has been determined that the career satisfaction levels of female employees are higher than male employees. Original Value: As a result of this research, statistical data-based results were obtained that there is no significant relationship between the fear of missing out in the workplace and career satisfaction. The FoMO is one of today's partially new and popular concepts. It is seen that the number of scientific studies on the subject is also very limited. In this regard, it is recommended to examine the concept of FoMO in the workplace at different sample groups and its possible relationships with different factors such as personality traits in future studies.
Yazar isimleri: ['Alper GÜRER', 'Ahmet Barış SOLMAZTÜRK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: İş'te Davranış Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/idd/issue/67771/1057012
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2188812
