Makale Başlığı: Darguzini Hasan Rıza and his work as an addition to the Majalla
Özet: It is evident that the Ottoman state made radical reforms to overcome the crises it had fallen in various fields, especially since the Tanzimat era. In this context, the preparation and codification of “Majalla-i Ahkām-i Adliyya” is undoubtedly one of the most important events of both the Ottoman legal history and the history of Islamic law. It is not a whole and complete civil law since it mainly covers debts, partly property and judicial /procedural law. “Munākahāt ve Mufārakāt” subjects corresponding especially to the field of family law and the related law articles are not included in Majalla. The work that forms the basis of our paper was written precisely to fill this gap. The work in the nature of translation and commentary of Kadri Pasha’s book, al-Ahkām al-shar'iyya fi al-Ahvāl al-shahsiyya, which is a draft law, was born out of the need for a compact text on family law. It is also a response to the criticisms in his era towards the Islamic Family Law verdict. Its preparation about twenty years before the Family Law Decree is also a helpful clue in analyzing the nature of the work. In addition to translation, Hasan Riza strives to make the marriage contract, the responsibilities of the spouses, divorce, lineage and alimony subjects understandable, and to respond to the criticisms on these issues. When his effort is evaluated together with the religiously referenced commentary he made to Qānūn-i Asāsī , it can be described as the proof of the accuracy of the family law judgment, especially in the classical fiqh literature, and the defense of the conformity of these provisions to intact human nature. While this article mainly examines the nature of this work, it also aims to describe the criticism issues that the author’s era produced regarding the jurisprudence. The eight blurbs (taqrīz) at the beginning of the work are indicative in this regard. Bureaucratic and scientific relations and controversial issues on the agenda can be understood from these blurbs.  In these blurbs, some references are made to the feminist movement along with the observations concerning the status of women. When approaches handled here are combined with the informtion as to the historical roots and the phases of feminist movement, it would be possible to reach the intellectual memory of that period.  Determination and analysis of Darguzīnī’s identity and status is an indispensable requirement of this study.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatih YAKAR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Tasavvur / Tekirdağ İlahiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tasavvur/issue/70849/1091323
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2324069
