Makale Başlığı: Eating Disorders and Emotions
Özet: Eating disorders; these are psychiatric disorders in which there are deteriorations in eating attitudes and behaviors, behaviors towards weight control are revealed, and psychosocial and physical functions are impaired. The formation process of eating disorders is multifactorial and eating attitude can be affected by many events and situations. In this study, it was aimed to examine the relationship between eating disorders and emotions. Emotions are very important in the emergence and continuation of eating disorders, and many emotions are experienced in the process of eating disorders. Depending on the eating behavior, the emotional state of the individuals also changes. Although individuals provide short-term relief with the act of eating in order to avoid the distressing mood, in the long term; They experience many distressing emotions such as sadness, guilt, and shame. It was thought that having difficulty in emotion regulation might be a trigger for the onset and maintenance of eating disorders, and it was predicted that teaching emotion regulation skills would be beneficial in the treatment phase when working with individuals who reported problems with eating behaviors. Accordingly, addressing the processing of emotions in the relationship between eating disorders and emotions will facilitate the emotion regulation process and reduce the eating attacks. In this context, awareness and acceptance of distressing and unsettling negative emotions may positively affect the treatment in the eating disorder process. This study carried out; examines the emotions, emotions and eating disorders and emotion regulation difficulties thought to be associated with eating disorders. In this study, the relationship between eating disorders and emotions has been discussed in line with the literature.
Yazar isimleri: ['Haydeh FARAJİ', 'Burcu FIRAT']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Fenerbahçe Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/fbujoss/issue/70817/1116892
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2428672
