Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Geographical Indications on the Level of Awareness and Consumer Attitudes of Local Products: An Example of Bayburt Province
Özet: The fact that the world has gained tremendous momentum to become a single market with globalization has triggered the idea of making excessive profits on the trade. In parallel, the market shares of foods with modified content have increased. Strategies that can meet the needs of consumers against these developments and protect against imitated uses in the market have led to the emergence of geographical indication regulations. This study was carried out to reveal the effect of local products with geographical indication on the level of awareness and consumer attitudes. The research was conducted on consumers over the age of 18 living in Bayburt. In the research, it was tried to reveal the knowledge levels, attitudes and behaviors of consumers about geographically marked local products by using the SPSS-25 statistical program. Although there are 12 regional products in Bayburt that have received a total of 12 geographical indications, it has been revealed that consumers do not have sufficient knowledge about geographical indications. It has been determined that there are deficiencies in the promotion of geographically indicated products. It has been determined that although consumers can pay more for products with geographical indications, they have difficulties in accessing products with geographical indications. In this direction, it has been revealed that there is a significant relationship between consumers' perception and awareness of geographically indicated products and their purchasing behavior of geographically characterized products.
Yazar isimleri: ['Serhat KALEKAHYASI', 'Bora GÖKTAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Stratejik ve Sosyal Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sisad/issue/73546/1142517
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2533235
