Makale Başlığı: IN TERMS OF REGIONAL GEOGRAPHY BRAZIL AND TÜRKİYE
Özet: The aim of this research is to make some inferences about the basic geographical features of Brazil, which is one of the South American countries, to determine the prominent differences in the region and the world, and to discuss the place of geographical, political and commercial differences in the relations of the two countries. In the research, primary/secondary data sources obtained from various institutions and organizations, publications or reports were subjected to document analysis from qualitative research methods. The maps prepared in the Geographic Information Systems environment were used with the data obtained in the study. Brazil is an important country that stands out with its different characteristics in its region, on the continent, and also on a global scale, and has potential in many areas. Geographical factors such as tropical climate, landforms, field structure, natural resources, agriculture, population and settlement played a role in shaping the economic, cultural and social structure of Brazil. The geographical aspects mentioned are the most basic features that distinguish and differentiate Brazil from its surroundings. The geographical distance of Brazil from Türkiye has negatively affected relations throughout history. However, today, the development of transportation systems and the geographically complementary structures of the two countries have advanced the relations. Brazil is dependent on foreign sources for food products such as wheat, olives, various vegetables and fruits, some minerals, fertilizers and seeds due to geographical conditions. Türkiye has the potential to meet this need. In this direction, different production capacities that complement each other have brought the two countries closer together politically and economically. However, especially in the commercial relations between the two countries, there are problems that cannot be overcome due to customs operation and taxes, language problems and many other official procedures. If these problems are overcome and policies are made according to the geographical realities, the relations between Brazil and Türkiye will reach a much better level.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ercan KAZEL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Avrasya Sosyal ve Ekonomi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asead/issue/73282/1187647
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2702571
