Makale Başlığı: Evaluating the Content Knowledge in Badminton of Preservice Physical Education Teachers: A Case Study
Özet: The purpose of this study was to examine the effectiveness of teaching a badminton content class in physical education teacher education (PETE). Content knowledge is divided into two large categories: common content knowledge (CCK), and specialized content knowledge (SCK). Ward (2009) defined CCK as the knowledge necessary to perform physical activity or a task, and SCK as the knowledge necessary to teach the physical activity or a task. Previous research has demonstrated low levels of preservice teachers’ (PSTs’) content knowledge. In this study we examined two research questions: (a) What are the pre-test scores of eight male PSTs for CCK, performance (CCK-P), SCK task progression knowledge, and SCK error analysis in badminton? and (b) What are the changes in pre-post scores for CCK, CCK-P, SCK task progression knowledge, and SCK error analysis after a badminton content class? Participants were eight male PSTs ranging from sophomore to senior year. All were assessed using pre-and-post tests of badminton CCK, CCK-P, instructional tasks, and error analysis. Data were reported descriptively to determine the difference between pre and post scores on the four variables. The results indicated that PSTs had low pretest scores on all four variables However, post-test scores following the completion of the badminton content class demonstrated improvement on all variables except for task progression. Our results highlight the importance of content knowledge training in PETE) programs. There is a critical need for additional research to ensure the effectiveness of evidence-based practice and build a body of literature that can enhance our practice in PETE.
Yazar isimleri: ['Won Seok CHEY', 'Phillip WARD', 'Kyuil CHO', 'Emi TSUDA', 'Obidiah ATKİNSON', 'Daekyun OH']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Beden Eğitimi ve Spor Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/besad/issue/72804/1133035
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2495936
