Makale Başlığı: Evaluation on Biosecurity Practices of Dairy Farms in Bursa Province -II
Özet: Biosecurity is focused on reducing, preventing, and minimizing the spread of animal diseases or pests on a farm. Biosecurity action plans need to be considered mainly in farms where disease agents can be carried by various sources such as workforce, consultants, substitute cattle, consumables, feedstuffs, and vehicles. The concept of biological risk management recognizes that animal diseases cannot be completely eliminated, but that producers can manage disease risk through effective control measures. In the study, the farms and districts with 20 heads and above in Bursa province, which are registered in the Türkvet and herd book-program database were determined. The farms in these five districts (Mustafakemalpaşa, Yenişehir, Karacabey, Nilüfer and Osmangazi) are grouped according to their number of animals. The farms are divided into three layers: 20-50 head, 51-100 and >101 head cattle. The farms were determined and the farms within the population size were chosen and visited randomly by stratified sampling method. During the farms’ visits, questions were asked to reveal the border security of the farms, animal movements, applications for visitors and the protection of feed and water resources. There is no awareness at this point in the districts, especially in the questioning about animal mobility, especially about the transport vehicles and their drivers. It has been revealed that the necessary care is not taken to clean the vehicles in which the animals will be transported beforehand, that there are no other animals or equipment in the vehicles, or that the vehicle driver does not enter the shelters. Although some farms have generally protective approaches, it has been found that basic biosecurity measures are rarely used and these measures are not applied to all visitors to the same extent.
Yazar isimleri: ['Şehri YILMAZ', 'Mehmet KOYUNCU']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Bursa Uludağ Üniversitesi Ziraat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bursauludagziraat/issue/73469/1078936
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2274462
