Makale Başlığı: Investigation of the Economic Dimensions of Choir Festivals-Festivities in Terms of Participating Choirs and Organizations: “Choral Tourism”
Özet: Choirs constitute an important role in increasing the artistic, social, and academic quality. Choir festivals, in which choirs perform their works, have become widespread in Turkiye over the last ten years, and it is observed that the choirs not only participate in these festivals but also in festivals abroad. These festivals and events are important for choir members and conductors, as they provide opportunities for choirs to take stage outside their own environment. Choirs from all over the world participate in national-international festivals held in Turkiye and exhibit their works, and benefit from this as a social and touristic trip. Based on these views, choral festivals' economic dimensions were examined in terms of choirs and organizations. This research is a descriptive study in which data is collected through unstructured interview which constituted a small group. The main purpose of the research is to draw attention to "choral tourism".In this research, a study was conducted on the expenditures of 3 choirs and 4 organizations in order to address choral festivals' economic dimension. The participation processes of the three choirs in festivals held in different cities were discussed, and what kind of expenditures a choir had was tried to be determined, based on their expenditures during the process. Therefore, it is desired that choir educators and conductors who participate in festivals will be informed regarding expenditures. Based on this research, it is concluded that choral festivals contribute to international cultural exchanges and increase tourism revenues.
Yazar isimleri: ['Emel Funda TÜRKMEN', 'Mete GÖKÇE']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Musicologist
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/musicologist/issue/70373/1000997
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1995560
