Makale Başlığı: Ibn al-Ḳūṭiyya and His Work Named Tarikh iftitāḥ al-Andalus, Which He Wrote about The History of Al-Andalus
Özet: In this study, Ibn al-Ḳūṭiyya and his work named Tarikh iftitāḥ al-Andalus, which he wrote about the history of Andalusia, is discussed. After giving information about the biography and works of Ibn al-Ḳūṭiyya, his contribution to the history of al-Andalus and the work he wrote in this field were examined in various aspects. The fact that Ibn al-Ḳūṭiyya was born and grown in al-Andalus as a writer and his lineage is based on the Goths on his mother's side has given this work of him an even more important feature. Ibn al-Ḳūṭiyya lived in al-Andalus between (d. 898-977). The eighty-year life of Ibn al-Ḳūṭiyya, who is estimated to have been born in Cordoba, was spent in the cities of Cordoba and Ishbīliye (Sevilla), which were the richest scientific circles of his time and the region. During his time there, he took lessons from the important scientist who was there, and later on, he was instrumental in the training of many scientists. It has been noted that the main area of expertise of Ibn al-Ḳūṭiyya, who is interested in language, literature and poetry as well as Islamic sciences such as Fiqh, Hadith, and Islamic History, is Arabic language and literature. The biographers of Ibn al-Ḳūṭiyya defined him as the imam of the Arabic language in Andalusia, the pioneer of the Arabic language and poetry, the pioneer of the Arabic language, and the historian of al-Andalus. Abū ʻAlī al-Qālī, who is accepted as the founder of al-Andalus. Arabic language school, emphasized that İbn al-Ḳūṭiyya is the most outstanding scholar in the field of Arabic language of al-Andalus. Ibn al-Ḳūṭiyya came to the fore mainly with his identity as an Andalus historian. It was recorded that he knew the history of al-Andalus and the biographies of Andalus statesmen, scholars and poets well and conveyed this information orally. Although there are debates about the ownership of the work  Tarikh iftitāḥ al-Andalus, which is attributed to him, his deep knowledge of al-Andalus history and the belonging of the information in the work's content to him have never been the subject of discussion. As far as is known, the oldest Andalus historian of the Islamic period is ʿAbd al-Malik Ibn Habīb. Although his work named et-Târîkḥ is the first work of Muslim Arabs on the history of al-Andalus, the fact that this work is full of legends and superstition-like stories and that some of the events after his death are included in it, cast a shadow over the scientific identity of this work. Historical information is mostly overshadowed by superstitions and legends. The work of Maârik b. Marwân (d. ?) about the conquest of al-Andalus has not survived. Likewise, although a work on genealogy is mentioned by Ḥūkeym āl-Āẓdī, who was thought to have contributed to the history of al-Andalus before Ibn al-Ḳūṭiyya, this work has not reached the present day and is not directly related to the conquest of al-Andalus. Therefore, when these data are taken into account, the importance of Ibn al-Ḳūṭiyya and his work on the conquest of Andalusia becomes more evident. In addition, Ibn al-Ḳūṭiyya's work named Tarikh iftitāḥ al-Andalus is of great importance as it is a work that directly deals with the conquest of al-Andalus and the events that took place after the conquest, and it belongs to the works written before it but incomplete in many aspects. It has largely filled the void. Another point is that the author was born and grown in al-Andalus he was related to the ancient Andalus peoples in terms of lineage, he included issues about the nature and formation of the Andalus society, and he tried to present a realistic portrait of the events, which brought his work to a privileged position. In his work, Ibn al-Ḳūṭiyya tried to keep an equal distance to different groups. It is seen that what is told about Moses and Lüzrik (Rodrigo) and Bani Umayyah in his work, in terms of being the Mawālī of the Umayyads from his father's side, is in harmony with the work called Aḫbâru macmûa whose author is unknown but which highlights the Umayyads. However, the fact that he was a member of Sâre al-Ḳūṭiyya from his mother'’s side, it is striking that the information he conveyed caused him to reflect his identity as an Andalus. In fact, this work is of great importance in this respect. Because it is extremely important to tell the history of a country where various nations belong to different religions -especially by respecting these elements. It can be said that most historians writing on this subject, except for Ibn al-Ḳūṭiyya, have neglected this aspect of the issue.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ramazan ÖNAL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Tokat İlmiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ilmiyat/issue/70723/1102423
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2370035
