Makale Başlığı: The adaptation of the instrument for identifying teachers’ views related to scientific inquiry in science teaching
Özet: Scientific inquiry in teaching is encouraged in science curricula as a basic component of scientific literacy and is presented as an effective teaching approach in many educational research. The aim of this study is to adapt an instrument developed to determine teachers' views on scientific inquiry and teaching and learning through scientific inquiry into Turkish and to investigate its validity. The “Teacher's Views on Scientific Inquiry in Teaching Instrument” will enable the determination of teachers' views on scientific inquiry in teaching with a comprehensive and generalizable measurement tool. In order to adapt the instrument to Turkish, the basic principles and stages specified in the instrument adaptation studies were carefully followed, and first of all, two-way language translation of the instrument was made and expert opinion was obtained for language-culture compatibility. The translated instrument was read by different experts for clarity and the translation was finalized in line with the feedback of these experts. For the validity research of the instrument, the instrument was applied to the targeted group, namely the teachers. The data collected from a total of 643 in-service teachers were analyzed by item analysis and factor analysis method to ensure construct validity. For the reliability, Cronbach’s Alpha values were calculated. Accordingly, the instrument is valid and provides reliable results. In order to contribute to the field, information about the application of the instrument and the interpretation of the results for researchers are presented in this article. It is thought that the data to be obtained from the scale will be a guide for professional development programs related to scientific inquiry in teaching to be designed for teachers.
Yazar isimleri: ['Burcu ŞENLER', 'Yasemin OZDEM YİLMAZ', 'Ayse OGUZ UNVER', 'Nilay MUSLU', 'Hasan Zühtü OKULU', 'Sertaç ARABACIOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 2 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kocaeli Üniversitesi Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kuje/issue/73669/1054229
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2178234
