Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Energy on the Foreign Policy of Iran and Saudi Arabia
Özet: This study discusses the energy policies of Iran and Saudi Arabia and the place of energy in the relations between the two countries, with the effect of their hydrocarbon resources on their domestic and foreign policies. In this direction, the study aims to explain the extent to which energy has shaped the related countries after the discovery of hydrocarbon reserves in both countries and the effect of energy on the regional competition of the two countries in the developing process. Saudi Arabia has instrumentalized energy in its foreign policy approach and has been able to find a place in both regional and international order with its energy reserves. Saudi Arabia presents various strategies in order to maintain its position in the coming period. Iran, which formed a pillar of the two-pillar regional policy of the USA before 1979, took an anti-US stance in the region after the revolution and became evident as a threat in the international system with its nuclear energy development programs. Tehran has paid the price of its emergence as a threat in the international system by isolating and isolating it from the international community. This situation led to the collapse of the Iranian economy and its idle capacity. Iran's energy sector has been severely damaged due to the sanctions it has been subjected to. The energy sector, which has not developed enough, has not been able to make the necessary technology transfer. Currently, although Iran's oil production reached the pre-revolutionary production amount years after the revolution, it could not increase it much. For this reason, it tries to realize the order it wants to establish in the region with limited oil and natural gas revenues and to exist in the regional power race.
Yazar isimleri: ['Şevket ŞEKER']
Yayın Yılı: 7 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Ortadoğu Etütleri
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ortetut/issue/71071/1068785
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2234929
