Makale Başlığı: A Case Study Of The Use Of Motion Capture Technology in Motion Posters
Özet: In this research, animated poster design, which is frequently used in today's visual communication design is examined in chronological and theoretical terms. In the light of the data obtained, a motion poster work is created using motion capture technology. In this context, first of all the history, usage areas and working principles of motion capture technologies are examined. Considering that understanding the place of moving images in visual arts will form the theoretical infrastructure of the study and the pioneering studies arising from this cooperation are examined. The place and importance of motion graphic design in contemporary graphic design is investigated. The usage areas and important examples of motion posters in this discipline are given. In order to put the acquired theoretical and technical knowledge into practice, an animated poster work is carried out on the absurd theatrical text of Samuel Beckett's Waiting for Godot. The text is analyzed in a dramaturgical sense and the images that can be the subject of the poster are considered then the sketch stage is passed to the animated poster setup. At this stage, motion transfer is provided with the help of a marker-based technology called Rococo. The obtained data is transferred to the software named 3D Studio Max for modeling, creation of the skeleton system, texturing and lighting stages. The production process is completed by rendering the produced scene and sending it to the software named After Effects for editing, sound effects and color editing of the animated poster. This study analyzes the moving image design in a chronological sense and the technologies used in the technical sense and writes down the stages in the production process and the experiences gained.
Yazar isimleri: ['İbrahim Halil ÖZKİRİŞÇİ']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Fırat Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/firatsbed/issue/72636/1070065
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2240203
