Makale Başlığı: A Look at the Life of 'Atıke bınt Zeyd from the Fırst Muslim Women
Özet: The biographies of the companions are among the issues that enrich the era of the Prophet. The life stories of individuals, men and women, who knew the Prophet closely, witnessed his blessed prophethood and formed the first Islamic society, are of great importance. The necessity of introducing women Companions to the world of science is beyond explanation. For this reason, the life of the famous female Companion ‘Âtika bint Zayd will be discussed in our article. ‘Âtika bint Zayd was the sister of Saîd b. Zayd, one of the ten people the Prophet gave the good news of Paradise, the daughter of Zayd b. ‘Amr who lived as a ḥanīf in the period of Ignorance, the bride of Abū Bakr, the wife of ‘Umar, Zubayr b. al-‘Awwām and, according to a narration, Hussein and mother of ‘Iyāḍ b. ‘Umar. She was among those who converted to Islam during the Meccan period of Islam and migrated to Medina. There is no information in the sources about the life of Meccan period. She married for the first time with Abdullah, son of Abu Bakr. Later, she married a few more people from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah. Because all of her later husbands were martyrs, the people of Madina said about her, “Whoever wants to be a martyr should marry ‘Âtika”. One of the distinctive qualities of ‘Âtika bint Zayd is the poetry that was widespread among Arabs both in pre-Islamic and Islamic periods, was one of the subjects that stood out. Some of her poems about both the Messenger of Allah and her martyred husbands have survived to the present day. Her fondness for worship, her sensitivity to praying in Masjid an-Nabawi, and to stipulate this to her husbands when she get married were mentioned among her remarkable features.
Yazar isimleri: ['Havva Esma AKIŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Siyer Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/siyer/issue/70853/1112057
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2409206
