Makale Başlığı: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PERCEPTION AND JOB SATISFACTION LEVELS OF HEALTH WORKERS
Özet: The aim of this study is to determine the corporate governance perception and job satisfaction levels of healthcare professionals. 568 health workers working in System, Erciyes, Kızılay, Medikal Palace and Tekden private hospitals that operates in Kayseri province were included. The data was collected between January and March 2020. Questionnare forms in which a 7- item Personal Information Form for socio-demographic information, a 25-question Corporate Governance Scale and a 20 item Minnesota Job Satisfaction Scale included. SPSS 25.0 program was used for data analysis. Approval was obtained for this research by the Ethics Committee of Kayseri University (2019-31). A statistically significant difference was found between the health workers within the scope of the study according to their institutional management perception levels in terms of the institution, gender, educational status, duty and working time in the institution, the institution they work for, their age, educational status and their job satisfaction levels in terms of their duties in the institution (p < 0.05). In addition, a positive relationship was found between corporate governance perception and job satisfaction. Made literature on corporate governance in Turkey HCWs perceptions of job satisfaction and there are no studies addressing together. In this context, it can be said that the field is open to the contribution of future studies. It is assessed that, with the adoption of corporate governance and increasing the level of job satisfaction, healthcare enterprises can access financing with lower costs and increase their profitability. It is considered that comparative statistical data to be obtained through studies to be carried out in public health institutions and in different regions will guide the sector.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bilal İNCEDAĞ', 'Semra AKSOYLU']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Hacettepe Sağlık İdaresi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/hacettepesid/issue/72721/893827
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1627601
