Makale Başlığı: USE OF DIFFERENT ESSENTIAL OILS IN CONCENTRATED YOGURT AS NATURAL PRESERVATIVE
Özet: The main method of producing labneh consists of straining whole milk yogurt ina cheesecloth bag to the desired total solid level, it is a critical step in labnehmanufacturing, due to the sanitary problems usually associated with the clothbags used, which increases microbial contamination. In this study, essential oils(EOs) are used to increase the shelf life of labneh from 4 weeks to at least 6 weekswith decrease in the concentration of synthetic antimicrobial agent used.Measurement of the antimicrobial activity of EOs is done using total plate countmethod, on mold, yeast, Staphylococcus aureus, coliforms, and Escherichia coliO157:H7 .The EOs used in this study are namely clove, rosemary, sweet almond oil. Theywere added to labneh without any synthetic preservative. EOs were added at concentrations 600 μl/kg without addition of the synthetic preservative. Totalsolids of labneh sample, treated with EOs, were only slightly affected. EOs affectthe pH. In the presence of synthetic preservative, in terms of influence a totalbacterial viable count, the best EOs used were found to be clove and rosemary.The mold count for EOs, the best EOs used were found to be clove and rosemary.yeast decreased, where the best EOs were found to be cinnamon, clove, rosemary,sweet almond. However, clove, rosemary, sweet almond when added to labnehsignificantly decreased the growth of S. aureus and even better than positivecontrol. However, for EOs used the best essential oil that significantly decreasedthe growth of S. aureus was found to be rosemary at concentration of 600 μl/kg.No coliform bacteria or E. coli were detected in the treated labneh as well as inthe positive control. The most acceptable organoleptic properties of treatedlabneh were rosemary oils followed by sweet almond. Organoleptic properties inthese groups were better than positive control. In this study, it can be concludedthat the addition of rosemary and clove EOs at (600 μl/kg), could increase theshelf life of labneh for up to 6 weeks instead of 4 weeks.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ekim 2020
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Food Engineering Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijfer/issue/64810/991605
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1958990
