Makale Başlığı: Formation and Deployment of a System for Teaching Foreign Students in the Universities of the Soviet Union
Özet: The article is devoted to the history of the formation and evolution of the process of teaching foreign students in Soviet universities. An attempt is made to identify, briefly highlight and analyze the main stages in the formation of the system of education of foreign students in the universities of the USSR. The problem-chronological method made it possible to determine the sequence in the formation and development of the system for training foreign specialists in Soviet universities, to single out the stages in the formation of this system and to characterize each one based on the characteristics of state policy. The principle of objectivity contributed to a comprehensive examination of the material, taking into account the complexities and inconsistencies of the historical process. Thanks to the system method and the principle of complexity, the interrelations of individual phenomena and events were revealed. As a result, the connection between the goals pursued by the USSR in foreign policy and the peculiarities of the training of foreign specialists in higher educational institutions of the Soviet Union in different periods was revealed. In the 1920s the RSFSR, then the USSR, pursued strictly utilitarian goals in teaching foreign students: the training of foreign personnel was part of the foreign policy of the young Soviet state, aimed at the emergence and spread of the world revolution. Educational ties with other countries were of a spontaneous and intermittent nature, there were no clearly developed criteria for the selection of foreign students and the regulation of the educational process. The post-war period was marked by the formation of a standard procedure for agreements between foreign states and the Soviet Union on the issue of training foreign citizens in the USSR. The state faced a number of problems when accepting foreign citizens for education due to a change in the contingent of students and a significant increase in their number. Since the 1960s the educational system began to radically reform, and this process continued until the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Yazar isimleri: ['Arina SHUMİLOVA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Rusya Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rusad/issue/70988/1126681
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2469441
