Makale Başlığı: BAMSI BEYREK IN DEDE KORKUT
Özet: Epics are products of oral culture that reflect the lives of nations like a mirror. The Turks have a deep-rooted and developed epic tradition that goes deep into history. Dede Korkut Epics; it has an important place in Turkic epics; it is a reflection of ancient Turkic life; it contains important information about Turkic history, geography, language, literature, culture, art and many more. Many people are mentioned in Dede Korkut. One of them is Bamsi Beyrek. The name of Bamsi Beyrek is mentioned in seven epics in The Book of Dede Korkut. There are two seperate Beyreks in Dede Korkut. In fact, Bamsi Beyrek and Beyrek, who are two seperate people, have merged as a single type in the historical process. There are many historical-epic-legendary-mythological layers, the oldest of which goes deep into history, in the Bamsi Beyrek/Beyrek type, which has an important place in Dede Korkut. An important historical layer of the Bamsi Beyrek/Beyrek type in Dede Korkut is related to Tardu Kagan (576-603), the founding ruler of the Western Gok-Turk State. Kam Bori’nin Oglu Bamsi Beyrek Boyu, whose roots go deep into history, is one of the most common epics in the Turkic World. This narrative is the epic with the richest motifs in Dede Korkut and includes motifs from various periods of human life, from birth to marriage, from having children to death. Bamsi Beyrek is one of the types that best reflects the old Turkish type in Turkish folk literature. Kam Bori’nin Oglu Bamsi Beyrek Boyu, is the most international and universal narrative of Dede Korkut, and continues to live in many parts of the Turkic World today under different names. All these reflect the importance of Bamsi Beyrek. In this article, Bamsi Beyrek in Dede Korkut; his name, family, place in history, Dede Korkut and epics were examined.
Yazar isimleri: ['Dursun Can EYÜBOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Asya Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asya/issue/72908/1115022
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2421092
