Makale Başlığı: ASYMMETRIC PRICE BEHAVIOR IN BURDUR MILK MARKET
Özet: Information has a significant position in economic literature. Classical economic theory assumes that decision-making units have complete information. In the absence of market interventions, the market is in equilibrium. In the case of intervention in the market, it is claimed that the scarce resources are not used effectively, that is, the pareto optimum is not achieved and market failure is experienced. One of the reasons of market failure is asymmetric information. Asymmetric information is the situation in which one of the decision units in the market has more information than the other. Therefore, decision units can take their decisions under the condition of imperfect information. The existence of imperfect information impairs the symmetry of information among the parties. The aim of the study is to examine the asymmetric price structure of the milk market in Burdur province, which ranks 19th in the number of animals, 10th in the amount of milk produced and 1st in the amount of milk obtained per cattle. In the study, the long-term correlation between producer and consumer price series was analyzed using co-integration analysis, and the short-term correlation was analyzed using error correction model. As a result of the analysis, a statistically significant relationship was found between the lagged values of the positive error terms (ECT+) and the lagged values of the negative error terms (ECT-). When the absolute values of the calculated error terms were compared, it was determined that the absolute value of ECT- was greater than ECT+. In the analysis, it is concluded that retailers react more quickly to a shock that narrows their profit margins than to a shock that expands the margins.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kübra ÖNDER']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: G.Ü. İslahiye İİBF Uluslararası E-Dergi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iiibfud/issue/67335/1039620
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2144387
