Makale Başlığı: INTRODUCTION OF FIRST VOLUME FIRST PART OF THE MATLA-I SA’DEYN AND MECMA-I BAHRAIN NAMED WORK, AUTHOR; KEMÂLEDDÎN ABDÜRREZZÂK SEMERKANDÎ, DIRECTORATE OF NATIONAL EDUCATION, RESEARCH AND RESEARCH INSTITUTION
Özet: As it is known, doing studies on the history of the Middle Ages is very difficult due to the insufficient resources and the fact that the available resources are in different languages ​​such as Persian and Arabic. In this respect, each study on the available resources is of great value. The works named Matla-ı Sa'deyn and Mecma-ı Bahrain, which are the subject of the study, are among the works written in Persian and have survived to the present day. The present work is of great importance especially in terms of the situation of India at that time and the history of the Turks there. In addition, the work is in a valuable position in terms of understanding the political structure of the period and the relations between states. The fact that detailed information about the powerful rulers of the period and their effective political characters is included in the work is of the nature to provide a unique source of information to historians who will work in this field. In the work, the struggle for domination of the powerful statesmen and kings of the period is also among the subjects discussed in the work. As a matter of fact, it is an important issue to present a wide range of topics to researchers in Turkish as titles. In this respect, an effort has been made to facilitate the examination of the work by making translations in order to introduce the work and to ensure that its content is accessible in Turkish. The work consists of two volumes and four parts. The chapter containing the work is the first part of the first volume. In the introduction part, there is the introduction of the work and the author, and in the main part there is the introduction of the work. In the conclusion part, there is an evaluation made about the general opinions about the work.
Yazar isimleri: ['Filiz AKÇAY']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Asya Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asya/issue/72908/1140437
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2524846
