Makale Başlığı: Oil Rose Market in the World and Role of Turkey
Özet: Cosmetics sector has been one of the manufacturing industry branches with high added-value and constant development since the existence of humankind. Leading companies of the cosmetics sector take place in Europe, with a significant export volume. One highly valuable input of the cosmetics and perfumery industries is the rose oil, considered to be one of the most expensive essential oils in the world due to high fragrance components. The main goal of this study is to focus on oil rose, which carries great importance for cosmetics sector, as well as the global production and trade of the essential oils obtained from rose. To that end, the study has been conducted with, on account of supply nearly 90% of the global rose products demand, within the scope of Turkey and Bulgaria, national and international data, sectoral reports along with present studies in the field. Average export volume of rose products between the years of 2016 and 2020 were as 12.6 million Euros for Turkey, and 17.5 million Euros for Bulgaria. In accordance with results of the study, the most major problems in the global rose products sector were determined to be high costs, price fluctuations as well as global demand. Thus, from 2016 to 2020, the rose oil exports income of Turkey and Bulgaria reduced by 42% and 76% respectively. For the prices of rose oil export from 2016 to 2019, the rates lowered by around 51% for Turkey and 33% for Bulgaria. This indicates the necessity of taking certain precautions regarding the future of rose product market. In addition, although Turkey is one of the leading countries in the rose product market, the fact that exports are not made as a final product makes export revenues limited. Alongside the measures will take against the price fluctuations and the narrowing global demand, supplementing the cosmetics and perfumery industry by making added-value productions will increase the present export income in response to narrowing global demand.
Yazar isimleri: ['Orhan Orçun BITRAK', 'Selim Adem HATIRLI']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Selçuk Üniversitesi Akşehir Meslek Yüksekokulu Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/akmyosb/issue/71096/1105489
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2382440
