Makale Başlığı: Ergonomic classroom design in the COVID-19 Pandemic: a study on the cross-arrangement of classroom seats
Özet: COVID-19, caused by the coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), emerged in China in December 2019 and quickly spread all over the world; deeply affected people's health and life.  In early 2020, in an effort to reduce the risk of COVID-19 and prevent the spread, schools around the world essentially suspended in-person education and then began distance education. However, distance education is not a method that is particularly applicable in the field of applied education. In addition, it is thought that distance education will negatively affect the careers of graduates and the country's economy in the future. Therefore, redesign of educational institutions is inevitable in order to be ready for face-to-face education under pandemic conditions. In this paper, cross-row classrooms are designed to reduce transmission in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic: In this classroom design, student rows are cross-aligned with pandemic-compatible occupational health and safety measures. The dimensions of the designed university classroom are 14.73 m x 11.31 m x 3 m and its capacity is 29 people (28 students + 1 teacher). The cross-arranged classroom design saves 36% of space compared to straight-line classrooms. The design of pandemic-compliant classrooms should also be considered from an economic point of view (i.e cost of lightinig, ventilation and construction), as the pandemic-compliant classrooms to be designed are larger than regular classrooms. Implementing face-to-face education in health and safety approved educational environments will have positive contributions to personal development and the economy in the future. Even if the pandemic will become endemic, universities should always offer online educational opportunities. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Kemal ÜÇÜNCÜ', 'Hafiz Hulusi ACAR']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Artvin Çoruh Üniversitesi Orman Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://ofd.artvin.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/73139/1107139
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2389217
