Makale Başlığı: EVALUATION OF THERMAL COMFORT IN TERMS OF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY IN WEAVING FACILITIES  BY FUZZY LOGIC
Özet: The fuzzy-based approach was chosen because fuzzy logic enables computerization of human reasoning. In recent years, Forecast accuracy and applicability to success in general. Models that show as fuzzy were developed. Data that are difficult to collect with exceptional predictive accuracy can be developed by utilizing the experience of fuzzy logic based models. One of the basic conditions necessary for a person to continue his life in a healthy way is to keep the body temperature at a normal temperature. Thermal comfort means that the majority of the workers in the working environment are in a certain comfort while continuing their physical and mental activities in terms of climatic conditions such as temperature, humidity and air flow rate. If the thermal comfort conditions are insufficient in the working environment, distress is felt and discomfort begins, and accordingly, the working capacity and work efficiency of the person decreases. In this article, temperature physiology and occupational health will be evaluated with fuzzy logic in weaving business. Recognition of risks in the work environment is the most important factor in preventing occupational disease, work-related illness and occupational accidents. The air flow velocity Va (m/s) read from the thermal micro air conditioner is a parameter related to how people in an environment perceive the environment in which the components of personal and environmental factors affecting thermal comfort are expressed mathematically, using PMV and PMV value. The index PPD change, which indicates the rate of change, was determined with the help of fuzzy logic.
Yazar isimleri: ['Murat KODALOĞLU', 'Feyza AKARSLAN KODALOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of 3D Printing Technologies and Digital Industry
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ij3dptdi/issue/71295/1081567
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2284667
