Makale Başlığı: POLITICAL ACTORS AND PROCESSES IN THE MEDIA: IRANIAN DOMESTIC POLITICS IN THE JOURNAL OF THE YENİDEN MİLLİ MÜCADELE
Özet: The new political structure, which was established with the revolution in Iran in 1979, has had important consequences for the regional countries and the international system. For this reason, the Revolutionary Council Interim Government and the Constitutional Republic periods are important for the domestic politics of the period. The internal politics of the period in question have also been followed with interest by the media organs in Turkey. When the period magazines are scanned, it is seen that Iran's domestic politics is at a remarkable level compared to other magazines. There is a serious attitude change compared to other journals in the way Iran's domestic politics is transferred. In the study, it was determined with the content analysis management how the actors of the period were positioned, how the groups with different ideologies in the process were defined, and how Iran's internal politics was transferred. It was determined that the developments were conveyed as “administrative conflicts” and “struggle for independence” of ethnic groups. Also, there are differences in the rates of the actors of the process. Because while the social and religious actors of the process, Ayatollah Khomeini is not positioned as the main actor in the texts; M. Rıza Shah, Mehdi Bazergan, and Beni Sadr are featured in the texts. The Yeniden Milli Mücadele, which is in a nationalist-conservative position, saw various names and groups influential in Iranian domestic politics as a threat to regional politics and displayed an approach that criminalized political groups with a reactionary attitude. The fact that the Yeniden Milli Mücadele Movement, whose foundation was based on the threat of communism, adopted an anti-communist ideology laid the groundwork for this approach.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hülya ÖZKAN RIGIDERAKHSHAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Asya Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asya/issue/72908/1097290
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2348036
