Makale Başlığı: Examination Of Muzakkar-Muannas Incompatibility In The Qur'an Within The Context Of Haml Method
Özet: Qur’an-centered language studies have continued uninterruptedly from the period of tenzil (the period when the Qur’an was sent down) to the present day. Among these, studies examining the language and grammatical style of the Qur’an have an important place. This study aims to draw attention to the perfect language style and grammatical consistency of the Qur’an. In this context, in this study, the most familiar and complex issues of the Arabic language, masculinity and femininity, are discussed with the main lines. After drawing a general framework on the subject at the beginning of the study, the concepts of tezkîr (masculinity) and te'nis (femininity) are introduced and the individual works that have been copyrighted from Yahya b. Ziyad al-Farra (d. 207/822) to the present day are listed in chronological order. In the continuation of the study, the importance of knowing masculinity and femininity is pointed out and the principles, types and signs of femininity are mentioned. Then, grammar and Haml (Attribution) methods, which reveal the approach of the Qur’an to the subject of masculinity and femininity, were examined. In this context, it has been pointed out that the Qur’an does not contain any incompatibility in terms of masculinity and femininity. It has been pointed out that, the negative impression in question is because of the grammatical methods in the Arabic language called “al-haml allel-muzakker (Attribution to masculinity) and al-haml allel-muennas-(Attribution to femininity)”, which is summarized as “the treatment of masculine as feminine or feminine as masculine” in language. The subject has been tried to be clarified with examples from the Qur'an and Arabic poetry.
Yazar isimleri: ['İzzet MARANGOZOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 22 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye Din Eğitimi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tudear/issue/70435/1116976
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2429077
