Makale Başlığı: The impact of FVC/DLCO ratio on diagnosis of pulmonary hypertension and disease prognosis in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
Özet: Introduction: Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a chronic progressive fibrotic lung disease of unknown etiology that occurs most commonly in older adults. The presence of pulmonary hypertension in Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is associated with poor prognosis and mortality. Literature suggests that the forced vital capacity to diffusion capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide ratio has a positive predictive value for the diagnosis of pulmonary hypertension. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the impact of forced vital capacity to diffusion capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide ratio on the diagnosis of pulmonary hypertension and disease prognosis in Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis patients.MATERIAL AND METHOD: Forty-eight patients diagnosed with Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis were included in the study. Patient records, echocardiographic and spirometric data were retrospectively reviewed.Results: The average pulmonary arterial pressure was observed to be 32.8 (±9) mmHg, with the second-year follow-up pulmonary arterial pressure at 40.8 (±17.2) mmHg and the fourth-year follow-up pulmonary arterial pressure at 51 (±23.6) mmHg. In those diagnosed as pulmonary hypertension, the forced vital capacity to diffusion capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide ratio was initially 1.54 (±0.72). By the second year, it was 1.61 (±0.45), and by the fourth year, it was 1.87 (±0.8). It was found that the forced vital capacity to diffusion capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide ratio tended to increase when pulmonary artery pressure increased during the follow-up period.Conclusion: We found that low six- minute walking test distance was an important marker for the diagnosis of pulmonary hypertension in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and that the presence of desaturation was also significantly associated with survival in pulmonary hypertension. Although we did not find it statistically significant, we found that both pulmonary arterial pressure and the the forced vital capacity to diffusion capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide ratio increased with progressive disease duration after diagnosis in patients with IPF. We believe that the the forced vital capacity to diffusion capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide ratio is an important marker for early detection of pulmonary hypertension and prognosis in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
Yazar isimleri: ['Tuğçe ŞAHİN ÖZDEMİREL', 'Berna AKINCI ÖZYÜREK', 'Kerem ENSARİOĞLU', 'Özlem ERTAN', 'Esma Sevil AKKURT']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Health Sciences and Medicine
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jhsm/issue/73169/1165071
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2608450
