Makale Başlığı: Social Media Use of Art Professionals in the Context of Social Media and Art Relationship
Özet: Its relationship with art and media is seen in parallel with the relationship between humanity and media. In terms of both the presentation of art and the techniques in which art is performed, the fields of art and media have mutually influenced each other over time. In addition to its physical presentation areas, art found the opportunity to meet with the media and its audience. New media opportunities developed thanks to technology, new channels have emerged for the artist. The internet network, which has become widespread since the early 2000s, and the developments that followed it, have led to the development of social media with smart phones. This has enabled billions of people around the world to interact easily. It has been very attractive to determine target audiences and to carry out targeted PR activities with various filtering options such as geographical location, age, gender, and interests. Art, too, has acquired a new PR field by making use of these new methods. Art institutions, together with art professionals, which we use to describe people working in the field of art, use media tools for the presentation, publicity and marketing of works of art. This study is based on the question of what kind of PR activities art professionals and art institutions carry out in social media. Interviews were held with 5 galleries and 2 museums, which have Instagram accounts, one of the social media accounts of art galleries and museums in Beyoğlu, which is accepted as the center of cultural and artistic activities in Istanbul, with more than 10 thousand visitors. In addition, 4 artists working with these institutions and 4 curators who are known for their exhibition works in the sector were also interviewed. A total of 15 interviews were conducted. It is focused on how art professionals use social media as a public relations medium. The findings obtained as a result of the interviews were evaluated in the light of the literature.
Yazar isimleri: ['Aynur KARAGÖL', 'Lutfü KAPLANOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Kültürel ve Sosyal Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/intjcss/issue/70727/1097107
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2347388
