Makale Başlığı: “Yârenlik” as a Form of Humorous Narration
Özet: Described as having a friendly chat, conversing and verbally mild humor, “yârenlik” colloquially denotes humorous talk and narration of memories with a witty punch line at the end. Amusing is a central quality in narration of yârenlik that serves as an origin of anecdotes. The form of yârenlik that not only amuses butalso helps recount and exemplify a subject matter or a notion is called "teselleme". As it is the case in otherfolkloric forms of literature, the narration of yârenlik also serves to directly or indirectly entertain, relax, fosterfriendship and solidarity, criticize, and educate. Since they are set and narrated in small villages, narrators andaudience are acquainted directly or only by name with the true protagonists of yârenlik as it is the case for theforms of teselleme. While the ridiculousness of the “yârenlik” depends on the elements that can be explainedwithin the theories of superiority, incongruity and relaxation, on the other hand, the real and original personality of the narrative hero is an important element of laughter. The narration to the audience who are not acquainted with protagonists is a token of how the story or the state of things is more important than the subject, appealing to a larger group of people. Such forms of yârenlik and teselleme are more convenient to be morphed into an anecdote. In addition, amusing, which is typically the purpose of yârenlik, serves rather as a means for teselleme and anecdotes. What is narrated turns into a proverb when its message or the lessonlearned from it does not sink into oblivion even though true protagonists, the story itself or the state of thingsare no longer relevant and thus forgotten about. Therefore, one can argue that the recounts of yârenlik provide an origin for proverbs and idioms. When recounted to people who are not from where it originates, yârenlik brings about additional comments and statements by the narrator if it is released in a rural newspaper or posted online on social networks. In this case, the narrator feels the need to include informative statements about the subject, especially in the introduction. Incorporating such humorous talk and memories that are spontaneously formed in daily life, the recounts of yârenlik directly portray the lifestyles of the village or site where they are set, their living conditions, common perceptions and views, namely their culture and socioeconomic state as they are based on true characters, events, and situations. The wording, the forms of addressing, and patterns of expressions are likely to offer insight into the local dialect and serve as a basis for further studies. Some “yârenlik”s disappear depending on changing social conditions and time. From this point of view, it is of capital importance to compile and review such recounts that may serve as an origin for culturaland historical studies as well as folk literature. Dalakçı village of Mucur district of Kırşehir draws attentionwith the prevalence of the expression of “yârenlik”. 155 of the “yârenlik”s that the villagers sent to the "Dalakçı Newspaper" were made into a book and published under the name "Yârenlikleriyle Köyümüz Dalakçı-1".In our study, the “yârenlik”s in this book have been examined in terms of their humorous features and determinations have been made about the qualities that make them different from “teselleme” and anecdote.
Yazar isimleri: ['Asuman GÜNEŞ ULUS']
Yayın Yılı: 11 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Milli Folklor
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/millifolklor/issue/73825/884669
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1593709
