Makale Başlığı: Strategic Readiness as One of the Ways to Cope With Uncertainty during the Pandemic of COVID 19 / Pandemi Döneminde Belirsizlikle Başa Çıkma Yollarından Biri Olarak Stratejik Hazırbulunuşluk
Özet: Considering that human beings go through many emotional states under uncertain conditions, how people deal with these emotions arouses curiosity. Although it has also positive effects, uncertainty, which usually has negative connotations and may create feelings such as stress, anxiety and despair, appears as an issue that should be put excessive emphasis on. For this very reason, in this study, strategic readiness is discussed as one of the accepted methods to deal with uncertainty itself. Strategic readiness is defined as a planned readiness in the presence of change and unpredictable processes. From this point of view it becomes clear that it is important to make a conscious preparation for all situations that develops or may develop due to uncertainty. This study reveals the teachers' states of being ready and their opinions on how they behave under uncertainty. In this regard, the nine teachers’ opinions were sought by the method of case study. Based on the maximum diversity sample, data were collected from teachers working at primary, secondary and high schools via video calls; and the data were described by content analysis method. According to the research findings, the uncertainty especially during the pandemic created a great need for teachers to make a planned self-regulation. As a matter of fact, the uncertainties experienced left the teachers with feelings such as defenseless, anxious, stressed, pessimistic, fearful and hopeless at first, and made them feel inadequate about what kind of attitude and behavior to improve. Later, these feelings were replaced by some feelings such as indifference, acceptance, ignorance and tides. As a result, the importance of readiness both psychologically and organizationally became prominent, although it is difficult to act in accordance with the rapid changing conditions. It is recommended that school principals keep in communication with teachers; so by this way, It is observed that the intense interaction can minimize the destructive effects created by uncertainty. There is a need for teachers to be guided and support.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşegül ATALAY MAZLUM']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: e-Uluslararası Eğitim Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://www.e-ijer.com/tr/pub/issue/73267/1092163
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2327656
