Makale Başlığı: The Interaction of Purchasing Factors in Hedonic Shoppers
Özet: Although past studies have begun to explain the unknowns about the shopping processes of individuals, it is still not possible to fully understand the consumer's mind. Every study on consumer behavior contributes to the literature in order to eliminate this unknown. This study, which was conducted to seek an answer to the question "Which indicator affecting the purchasing behavior of consumers is more effective in which hedonic shopping motivation?", was prepared by using DEMATEL technique, one of the decision-making methods, in order to solve the confusion that consumers experience while making their purchasing decisions. In order to understand how the indicators affecting the purchasing behavior of consumers are positioned according to their hedonic shopping motivations, data were collected from individuals who have recently preferred the products on the hedonic product list. The analysis continued by segmenting both the hedonic shopping motivations and the indicators affecting the purchasing behaviors of the participants. Calculating any hedonic shopping motivation above 3 (for likert of 5) was interpreted to mean that the participant had the relevant motivation. Similarly, a hierarchy was obtained in the indicators affecting the purchasing behavior of consumers according to the answers given by the participants. For the participants who were determined to have hedonic shopping motivation, the effects and importance of the indicators affecting the purchasing behavior of consumers were calculated with the help of DEMATEL analysis. With this method, the direction of causality between the indicators affecting purchasing behavior was also revealed. According to the results of the research, the importance statistics of the indicators in the motivation of individuals to shop to socialize and to shop to get ideas were calculated high compared to other motivations. While the perception of prestige has the highest impact value in the motivation to shop to seize opportunities; self-perception was calculated as the indicator with the highest impact value in all other hedonic shopping motivations. This method, which can be used to reveal patterns that cannot be understood through direct observation, was used within the framework of hedonic shopping motivations in the study. It is suggested that the DEMATEL research method used in this study can be used in future research where it can be used to reveal different elements affecting consumer psychology.
Yazar isimleri: ['Selçuk Yasin YILDIZ', 'Selim ÇAM']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İnsan ve Toplum Bilimleri Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/itobiad/issue/72362/1128277
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2476228
