Makale Başlığı: CONSCIENCE AGAINST TYRANNY
Özet: Stefan Zweig’s book “Castellio gegen Calvin oder Ein Gewissen gegen die Gewalt”, translated into Turkish as “Conscience Against Tyranny or Castellio Against Calvin”, deals with one of the most effective defenses of freedom of conscience in history. Castellio, a clergyman, rebels against Calvin’s making the Reform Movement, which emerged with the claim of religious freedom, into a totalitarian identity. He bravely challenges Calvin’s religious tyranny, which deprives people of their most basic freedoms.Castellio sees it as a vulgar effort to forcefully monopolize beliefs, which are diverse in nature. According to him, binding people to a religion by coercion is an insult to both those people and that religion. Since bullying/tyranny always induces the unrest and produces its opposite, the religious discrimination that is performed by governments destroys social peace.Therefore, it is necessary to counter religious bigotry with religious tolerance. People can live together only if they accept the plurality and diversity of their beliefs. The key to unity and togetherness is tolerance. However defending freedom and tolerance is always dangerous.Castellio is aware of the danger. However, he says that the truth cannot be represented by only one. He argues that a worldview should not be imposed on anyone. This position he took against Calvin, the ruthless tyrant of the period, causes him to suffer from heavy grievances. Here is the greatness of Castellio; despite knowing that he will get into big trouble, he stands up to the oppressor and takes sides with the persecuted.When the concepts  like “freedom of conscience” or “tolerance” are  put forward  in the world of thought, names such as David Hume and John Locke come to mind first. Unfortunately, Castellio’s name is not mentioned. However, Castellio was the first intellectual leader of the cause of tolerance. Zweig writes this book to pay his debt of gratitude to Castellio, who paid a high price for freedom of conscience and religious tolerance. Therefore, the main purpose of this book, which Zweig describes as “my most valuable book”, is to hand over the rights of a forgotten rights defender, Castellio.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Dicle Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/duhfd/issue/72217/1163708
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2603208
