Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of unlisted defects in the scales considered in the calculation of  disability
Özet: Aim: Disability reports are one of the important fields of study of Forensic Medicine. It is known that there are deficiencies in the regulations used while preparing these reports. It is seen that there are loss of rights due to these deficiencies, and there are contradictions in the reports received about the same case due to the difference in discretion used by the issuing institution or the doctor when interpreting the regulation. In our study, it is aimed to draw attention to the deficiencies of the regulations and to investigate the reasons for the conflicting reports.Materials and Methods: In this study; by examining the Disability Reports prepared in the Forensic Medicine Department of Ege University Faculty of Medicine between 01.01.2015 and 01.01.2020, a total of 542 reports were included in the reports, which did not have a defect equivalent in the relevant regulation, and the defect type was determined by using the appraisal closest to the defect type in the relevant regulation. Total reports with no equivalent, determined using discretion, were included. By examining the reports included in the research, according to the Occupational Earning Power Loss Rate Determination Charts and the Disability Ratios Field Guide, the nature of the discretion used (ratio, close appraisal, sub-threshold value, no provision, there is a provision) recorded in case report forms.Results: According to MKGKOTC included in the study, the most appreciated regions were the shoulder joint (15.5%), knee joint (13%), ankle (12.5%), wrist (8.5%), hip joint (7.4%) and Mental Health and Diseases (6.5%). According to EOAK, the most appreciated departments were Musculoskeletal System Malfunctions (77.7%). In the reports prepared according to MKGKOTC, the use of close appraisal and ratio was found to be significantly higher (p<0.05).Conclusion: It has been observed that the Occupational Earning Power Loss Rate Determination Charts cannot meet the requirements of our age, and the experts had to use discretion due to the deficiencies. your regulation; As a result of the difference in interpretation due to the experience or specialty of the physician using it, dramatic differences can occur in the reports prepared for a person with the same fault. For this reason, it is necessary to make a regulation in the	 regulation that can ensure that it is used in the same way regardless of the field of expertise.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 12 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Ege Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://egetipdergisi.com.tr/tr/pub/issue/72611/1209123
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2790639
