Makale Başlığı: A Review on Risāle-i Baḳḳālçılıḳ
Özet: It is known that social norms that shape almost every aspect of life in Turkic society and are mostly based on oral tradition also shape business life. It is understood from the historical information and documents that each branch of profession has formed its own internal rules over time and that trade is carried out according to these rules. Anatolian Turkishness applied these rules through institutions such as vocational guilds and Ahi organization. It can be said that there are similar control mechanisms in the commercial life of the Eastern Turks, as can be understood from the dozens of professional treatises in various libraries of the world today. Occupational booklets, especially from the Uyghur Turks, show that both the execution of traditional professions and their transfer to future generations take place according to certain rules. Considering that the aforementioned rules are fed by the traditions, customs and beliefs of the society, it can be said that the booklets do not only contain information about the professions, but also convey some information about the social, economic and cultural structure of the society. In addition, it would not be wrong to say that these works, which were compiled from the society and written, are an important source in revealing the vocabulary of the Turkic language as well as the phonetic and morphological features.In this study, a manuscript registered with the name of Risale-i Baqqalcılık in Berlin Staatsbibliothek Library Ms or oct 1659 was examined. After the translation of the work is done through writing, the remarkable language and orthographic features are revealed. In addition, a grammatical index has been prepared in order to reveal the vocabulary of the work.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Mustafa KARACA']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Türk  Lehçe Araştırmaları Dergisi (TÜRKLAD)
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/turklad/issue/70372/1113833
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2416235
