Makale Başlığı: An Example of the Migration of Reaya From the Sanjaks Seized by the Usurpers in the 18th Century as a Life−Term Tax Farm (Malikane): Ishak Pasha (From Egin) and Arapgir Sanjak
Özet: In the 18th century, one of the reasons for the migration of the reaya in Anatolia was the influential usurpers (mutegallibe) in the region. Ishak Pasha (from Eğin) was one of them. A decree about the Arapgir Sanjak captured by the Pasha stated that the people did not feel comfortable from the day they began to be governed as life−term tax farms (malikane), and after a while, it began to disperse. This article examines the social and administrative consequences of the process of Ishak Pasha (from Eğin), who was the governor of Arapgir Sanjak, from brigandage to Pasha. The Pasha, whom the people of Eğin and Arapgir complained about to Istanbul for years, could not be captured and punished despite many arrest warrants. Courts and homes were raided and tax fraud took place. However, sometimes he denied his guilt and asked for forgiveness, sometimes he hid from his influential relatives and sought their help, and sometimes he resisted the governors who came to arrest him with the support of the Kurdish tribes in the region. By taking possession of the region in the form of a life−term tax farm, he gained financial power and increased his influence administratively. The people, who were not at peace throughout the life of the Pasha, could not save themselves even after his death, and this time the other rulers in the region fell against each other for the seizure of his life−term tax farm. The state, which wanted to prevent migration from the region, intervened in the registration of the Arapgir life−term tax farm as a solution to this situation.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nihal METİN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Social Inquiry
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijsi/issue/71029/1017831
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2058618
