Makale Başlığı: Examination of the Competencies of Science Teachers about Inclusive Education and Determination of Their Opinions / Fen Bilgisi Öğretmenlerinin Kaynaştırma/Bütünleştirme Eğitimine Yönelik Yeterlilikleri ve Görüşleri
Özet: This study was carried out to determine the competencies of science teachers towards education through inclusion as well as their opinions. In the study, the triangulation method, one of the mixed pattern methods, was used. In the triangulation method, quantitative and qualitative data were collected simultaneously. In the quantitative part of the study, the screening method was used. Quantitative data were collected with the Inclusive Education Questionnaire developed by Aksüt, Battal and Yaldız (2005) and analyzed in the SPSS 26 program. Independent t-test was used to understand whether there was a significant difference in terms of gender variable, and ANOVA test was used to determine whether there was a significant difference in terms of professional experience and age. In the qualitative part of the research, interviews were conducted. Qualitative data were collected via a semi-structured interview form developed by the researchers and analyzed by content analysis technique. Each question in the interview form was analyzed separately and the results were given in form of frequency and percentage. In the 2020-2021 academic year, 115 science teachers working in Siirt participated in the study and 105 forms were evaluated. According to the quantitative results of the study, no significant difference was found between the competencies of science teachers in terms of gender, professional experience, and age for inclusion. On the other hand, the competencies of science teachers for education through inclusion are graded as “I agree” in terms of the sub-dimensions including knowing individuals with special education needs, knowing and applying information about inclusion, measurement and evaluation and in total while their competencies are graded as “I am undecided” in terms of knowing and using the educational methods and techniques used during inclusive education. According to the results of the qualitative data of the research, it was observed that most of the teachers feel incompetent in inclusive education while the majority of those who feel incompetent in inclusive education ask for help from the school counsellor, take care of the students one-on-one, and do not use support-special services for education. Besides, it was observed that most of the teachers do not receive any training on the subject and the majority of the fields are only related to inclusive education in undergraduate education, and many teachers have little knowledge about IEP.
Yazar isimleri: ['Emrah ÖZBUĞUTU', 'Ersin ELMACİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: e-Uluslararası Eğitim Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://www.e-ijer.com/tr/pub/issue/73267/1148519
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2556438
