Makale Başlığı: Examination of Preschool Children’s Mental Models of Particular Science Concepts through Fun Science Activities / Eğlenceli Fen Etkinlikleri Aracılığıyla Okul Öncesi Dönem Çocuklarının Bazı Fen Kavramlarıyla İlgili Zihinsel Modellerinin İncelenmesi
Özet: The aim of this study is to reveal the mental models of preschool children about particular science concepts through their answers to the questions asked during fun science activities. The study group of the research consists of six preschool children belonging to a mixed age kindergarten classroom. Case study, one of the qualitative research designs, was used in the study. The data of the study consists of the answers to the questions asked to the children during the activities. Data were analyzed by content analysis. The science concepts examined in this study; gas, chemical reaction, flight principle of hot air balloon (expansion and rise of heated air) and dissolution. Results of the study showed that children did not construct a clear mental model about gas and they use the word air or foam instead of gas. It was also determined that children did not have an understanding of concepts related to characteristics of chemical reaction.  However, owing to the activity carried out in this study, it is understood that the children also observed and understood that the balloon swells and bubbles form in the water as a result of the mixing of vinegar and baking soda. Another concept, expansion, did not occur clearly in children, however, children’s stating that air inside the bag becomes ventilated due to heating is an indication that a mental model that can lead to these concepts has begun to form. It was determined that the children did not show a clear understanding of dissolution however they made various inferences about the reasons why the substances added into the water were visible or not visible in the water. As a result; it is revealed that children’s mental models of the concepts examined in this study were not fully developed, but pioneering concepts began to form, and some science process skills developed well as seen from the dialogues that took place during the activities, they were able to make inferences about their observations, and some children formed hypotheses.
Yazar isimleri: ['Filiz SONKAYA', 'Sule BAYRAKTAR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: e-Uluslararası Eğitim Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://www.e-ijer.com/tr/pub/issue/73267/1150398
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2563485
