Makale Başlığı: How Can I Realise My Strengths And Weaknesses?: Initial Teachers’entrepreneurial STEM Lesson Plan Development Through Reflective Diaries
Özet: Due to being fundamental for improving economic prosperity, social wealth and scientific development, making entrepreneurship and STEM become a part of everyday life has gained importance. To do so, entrepreneurial STEM education is needed to be provided at schools and universities through instructional, practical, and innovative teaching practices. Within this context, entrepreneurial STEM education can be supported by developing more effective lesson plans through utilising reflective thinking and analysing initial teachers’ existing knowledge, assumptions, and experiences. Reflective thinking, one of the higher-order thinking skills, is used to evaluate learning processes. This paper aims to help develop intial teachers’ reflective thinking and planning of their interdisciplinary entrepreneurial STEM lessons through reflective thinking. This qualitative exploratory study is conducted with three fourth-year initial science teachers studying at a public university in Turkey. The data are collected with reflective journals and pre- and post-interviews in the autumn semester of the 2021-2022 academic year. The stages of reflective thinking, which are (a) thinking about the process, (b) identifying the existing problems, (c)finding solutions to these problems, and (d) planning the process again, are used for the data analysis. The data are analysed with a rubric and the content analysis, and the results are discussed. This study contributes to the field by highlighting the role of reflective thinking in developing effective lesson plans and making suggestions on how initial teachers can realise the strengths and weaknesses of their knowledge, assumptions, and experiences that help them become better-equipped teachers.
Yazar isimleri: ['Serhan BOZAN', 'Sıla KAYA-CAPOCCI']
Yayın Yılı: 10 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Van Yüzüncü Yıl Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yyuefd/issue/73718/1109425
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2398964
