Makale Başlığı: Shah Shuja in The History of Muzaffarids (1358-1384)
Özet: In the political history of Ilkhanid state that was established by grandson of Genghis, Hulagu Khan, in 1316 Abu Sa’id Bahadur Khan succeeded to the throne and upon his death without leaving any heirs, political union was dissolved and sovereignty was shared among small dynasties. One of such local dynasties were the Muzaffarids.  Son of founder of the Muzaffarids dynasty Amir Mohamed, Shah Shuja is the second ruler of the dynasty. Together with his brother Shah Mahmud, he blinded his father Amir Mohamed following his unsuccessful campaign to Tabriz and sent him to exile where he was subsequently killed. After his father’s death Shah Shuja ascended to Muzaffarids throne in Shiraz in 1358 at the age of 17. Accepted to be the prime of the dynasty, Shah Shuja governed the state for about twenty- six years. Following his ascension to the throne, Shah Shuja had power struggles with his brother, Shah Mahmud. Upon death of Sultan Uveis in 1374 Shah Shuja benefited from power struggle in Jalayirid State that occupied the region and captured its capital city, Tabriz in 1376 in the manner of the sultan of his dreams, wise like Suleiman and powerful like Alexander, occupying the Jalayirid throne even for a brief period.  Muzaffarids that established a stern Sunni government until 1353, demonstrated higher religious tolerance in Shah Shuja period. He removed all social and religious bans and formed an unlimited lifestyle contrary to social ethics. This caused socio-cultural corruption to peak in social life. The cultural difference and corruption was valid not just for the Muzaffarid dynasty, but for the entire geography. A detailed study and critic of this situation is called for.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Atatürk Üniversitesi Edebiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/atauniefd/issue/65830/1026007
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2090354
