Makale Başlığı: The potential association of musculoskeletal pain with presenteeism and work engagement among intensive care unit nurses: a cross-sectional study
Özet: Aim: Work-related musculoskeletal disorders and associated musculoskeletal pain among intensive care nurses are important, as these factors may be related to presenteeism and work engagement. The aim of this study was to investigate the potential association of musculoskeletal pain with presenteeism and work engagement among intensive care nurses. Material and Method: This descriptive study was carried out with members of the Turkish Society of Critical Care Nurses. All the participants completed a questionnaire, which included questions about general demographic data and occupational musculoskeletal exposures (Occupational Safety and Health Administration [OSHA] Ergonomic Assessment Checklist). To measure pain, work engagement and presenteeism, the following instruments were used: The Brief Pain Inventory Short Form (BPI SF), Utrecht Work Engagement Scale (UWES-17) and Stanford Presenteeism Scale-6 (SPS-6). This study was performed in 2021, and the questionnaire was distributed via email to the database of Turkish Society of Critical Care Nurses. Results: Our study was completed with 153 intensive care unit nurses. Among the study population, 76.5% (n=117) of the nurses had chronic musculoskeletal pain, 80% of whom had exposure to lifting heavy weights. There was a weak negative correlation between pain and work engagement, as shown by the BPI SF pain interference subscale and the vigour subscale of the UWES-17 (p=0.04, r=-.166). There was also a weak negative correlation between pain and presenteeism according to the BPI SF pain interference subscale and SPS-6 (p=0.04, r=-.193). There was no statistically significant association between workplace ergonomic exposures, presenteeism, work engagement and the presence of chronic musculoskeletal pain. Conclusion: Neither chronic musculoskeletal system pain nor pain intensity was significantly correlated with work engagement, occupational musculoskeletal exposures or presenteeism. However, musculoskeletal pain-related effects on daily activities of living had a negative impact on work engagement (vigour) and presenteeism.
Yazar isimleri: ['Selin BALTA', 'Mehmet Erdem ALAGÜNEY']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Health Sciences and Medicine
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jhsm/issue/73169/1150752
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2564852
