Makale Başlığı: Some Morphemic Paralellisms Between Çatak, Dokuzlar And Köfündere Dialect And Sarız And Avşar Dialect -mIş/-Ik, -(A)cAk/-IcI
Özet: Anatolia has become Turkish and Oguz with migrations made between 11-14 centuries. The crowd coming to Anatolia is known to have also other Turkish elements except Oguz clans. Each clan that cameto Anatolia, it came by preserving its own dialect and kept these dialect characteristics alive in there gion where they came from. As a result of the members of same clans do not settle in the same geographical area and different clans live together in the same region have created different layers of dialect in a geographical region. Both the interaction between different Oguz clans and non-Oguz ethnic groups have enabled the Anatolian dialect to be diversified. It is difficult to determine which clan of Oguz is located by looking at the properties of the dialect today. It is known that Avshars is composed of 21 section sand 174 troops in themselves, which are based on Yıldızhan section of Bozoks. According to residential areas, it is possible to classify Avshars as Anatolian Avshars, Iran and Azerbaijan Avshars and Avshars remaining in Central Asia. Anatolia Avshars is scattered almost all over Anatolia. Facing the danger of extinction,the Avshar dialecth as many archaic features. The Avshar dialect in other geographies, especially Anatolian Avshars, must be compiled and recorded. In this study, we will try to show the parallelism with some features that we have detected in dialects of Catak, Dokuzlar (Kiraz), Kofundere (Odemis) between Avshar dialect. In this study, we have given in the dialect of Çatak, Dokuzlar (Kiraz) and Kofundere (Odemis) and in the villagers preserving the parallelism of some morphemes with the morphemes in the dialect of avshar. Of course, these parallels are not enough to say that Catak, Dokuzlar and Kofundere villages are Avshar villages. However, this kind of thing can be bought by we aim.
Yazar isimleri: ['Aylin ÇAKIR']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Tehlikedeki Diller Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tdd/issue/71566/1118101
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2434168
