Makale Başlığı: Descriptive Content Analysis for Studies On Pre-School Environmental Education
Özet: One of the most important tasks of societies to maintain sustainable development is to ensure that children develop a positive attitude towards the environment and have knowledge about it. In early childhood, it is believed that the attitudes of children towards the environment and the values they learn will form the basis of the desired behaviors in their future lives. The comprehensive presentation of the studies in the area of pre-school environmental education is important in terms of presenting ideas to the teachers who will train children on this subject and to the researchers who will work in this field. The aim of this study is to review research carried out on environmental education in the pre-school period in Turkey between the years of 2012-2022. The study was conducted within the framework of descriptive content analysis. When the objectives of the studies were examined, it was seen that they mostly sought to understand attitudes towards the environment. Participants in the study were primarily pre-service teachers. It has been determined that scales were frequently employed as a data gathering instrument in studies that are generally carried out using the survey method. From this point of view, it is clear that majority of the studies are based on the quantitative approach. Quantitative approaches are mostly used to specify a universe's attributes. Quantitative approaches also display to reveal how the subject is distributed according to one or more variables. On the other hand, it is possible to propose that qualitative research methodologies be incorporated into the studies in order to provide in-depth information and providing a rich data source regarding the examined issue.
Yazar isimleri: ['Şenem ALKAN', 'Eda Nur KURUÇAY', 'Meltem ALADAĞ', 'Tülin TATAR', 'Zeynep ÇOLAK', 'Canan CENGİZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Eğitim Bilim ve Araştırma Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ebad/issue/72841/1141413
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2528906
