Makale Başlığı: Job Satisfaction Levels of Religious Culture and Ethics Teachers and Imam Hatip High School Vocational Course Teachers
Özet: Undoubtedly, the basic element of education, which is a social institution and a system, is the teacher. Because the quality and quality of education is directly proportional to the quality of teachers, and a qualified school is required for a qualified education, and a qualified teacher is required for a qualified school. In addition to the qualifications sought in teacher qualifications, another important factor that concerns teachers is job satisfaction. Job satisfaction, which is expressed as the "expression of the employees' decisions regarding their enjoyment of their jobs" or the "attitudes of the employees about their jobs", is basically examined in two dimensions as internal and external satisfaction. Intrinsic satisfaction consists of elements such as success in the job, being accepted or appreciated, and promotion. External satisfaction, on the other hand, consists of matters such as the management and control styles of the institution, working conditions, relations with the managers and people under the management, and salary. While job satisfaction is important for every institution and every employee, it has a different importance for the teachers who are responsible for the task of building the future of the society, and especially for the religious culture and moral knowledge and the vocational course teachers of Imam Hatip High School who teach religion. Because DKAB IHL Vocational Course teachers who cannot provide enough satisfaction from their work; As a result of not being able to convey the issues in the curriculum at the desired level, students will have difficulties in motivating them to acquire the gains in the curriculum, and the rate of converting the knowledge and skills of the students to the desired behavior may decrease. For this reason, it is important and worthy to investigate the job satisfaction levels of religious culture and ethics teachers and Imam Hatip High School vocational course teachers. The aim of this study is to test whether the job satisfaction levels of religious culture and ethics teachers and Imam Hatip High School vocational course teachers working in Çorum show a statistically significant difference according to their demographic characteristics. The universe of the research consists of 484 religious culture and moral knowledge teachers and Imam Hatip High School vocational course teachers working in official schools affiliated to Çorum Provincial Directorate of National Education. Considering the 5% confidence interval and 5% margin of error for the calculation of the sample, the minimum number of samples to represent 484 units, which is the universe of this study, was calculated as 214, when the values replaced on the basis of this formula were taken into account. The research was carried out in March 2022, based on this sample, with the participation of 223 religious culture and moral knowledge and Imam Hatip High School vocational course teachers working in official schools in Çorum. Questionnaire technique, which is one of the quantitative data collection techniques, was used to collect the data needed in the research conducted with the quantitative method. In the first part of the questionnaire, which consists of two parts, there are a total of 6 questions (gender, age, marital status, educational status, type of school, professional seniority) to determine the demographic characteristics of the participating teachers. In order to determine the job satisfaction level of the participants, the second part of the questionnaire includes the Minnesota Job Satisfaction Scale, which was developed by Weiss et al. (1967) and adapted into Turkish by Baycan (1985) for reliability and validity studies. The Cronbach Alpha value of the scale is 0.77. The scale consists of two sub-dimensions as internal and external job satisfaction and a total of 20 items. As a result of the scale, a total score is obtained, and high scores indicate high job satisfaction. According to the research findings, the job satisfaction level of the sample; There are statistically significant differences between "gender in terms of both internal and external satisfaction factors" and "according to the branches they work in terms of internal satisfaction factor". On the other hand, it was observed that "the job satisfaction levels of the sample in terms of internal satisfaction and external satisfaction factor did not differ statistically significantly compared to other demographic characteristics".
Yazar isimleri: ['İrfan SEVİNÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Yakın Doğu Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ydoguilaf/issue/70671/1111252
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2406310
