Makale Başlığı: The problem of simplification of the Turkish language: The case of Yakup Kadri
Özet: Yakup Kadri Karaosmanoğlu is a person who has experienced the Turkish modernization process and has come to the fore not only as a poet, journalist, novelist but also as a politician and diplomat. Talking about individual issues in the first texts he started to write, Yakup Kadri turned to social issues as a result of the profession of journalism and major events over time. He has a pessimistic perspective in his plays and prose poems, he is introverted and deals with individual issues. In his novels, which he wrote during his maturity period, he deals with the processes that caused great changes in our society, such as the collapse of the Ottoman Empire, the National Independence War, and then the establishment of the Republic of Turkey. In parallel with the orientation from the individual to the society, the changes in the language and style used by the author draw attention. Karaosmanoğlu, who wrote his first works with the language understanding of Fecr-i Ati and opposed the Yeni Lisan, turned to National Literature in the next period and adopted the Yeni Lisan understanding. Especially after 1921, in Karaosmanoğlu's works, it is seen that the imaginary value of language has decreased, changed and simplified. In this study, it will be tried to determine the place of Karaosmanoğlu in this process by referring to the simplification process of the Turkish Language. Four theatrical works, Nirvana (1909), Veda (1929), Sağanak (1929) and Mağara (1934), which are among the first period works of the author, will be examined in the context of language forms and imaginative value and will be embodied with examples. Except for the first few stories, it will be tried to show that the stories, national war stories, stories and novels in Bir Serencam are different from theaters and prose poems in terms of subject and language. Although they were written on the same date, the difference in language, style and subject between the play named The Mağara (1934) and the novel Ankara (1934) is quite remarkable.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1192524
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2722528
