Makale Başlığı: Style And Spatial Reorganization In Online Learning Environments
Özet: Education is conducted online in cases of necessity. In such a case, the educational environment is organized online in such a way that it can be closest to face-to-face teaching. Thus, the variables related to the educational environment and environmental factors, which are important factor in the learning and teaching process, come to the fore. The research covers technical and spatial features in the online learning environment. The research consists of 8 primary school teachers who pursue postgraduate degree in the classroom education department during the spring term of 2019-2020 academic year and give courses through distance education means. The study is of importance for identifying and improving the views of primary school teachers giving online instruction regarding the technical and spatial environment in the learning settings. In this study, questions about how the online learning space and technical materials should be were described through a semi-structured interview form prepared by the researcher. Descriptive statistics were used in the analysis of the data. According to the results of the present study, it was determined that the students should have a room of their own in online lessons that would not distract the student, be comfortable, and could easily access course materials and resources, and technical tools should be equipped in a way that would not cause communication problems. In addition, it is recommended to sample personally designed pedagogically supported learning environments, determine the minimum characteristics of technological tools and materials for effective academic interaction and share them with education stakeholders.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nida BAYINDIR']
Yayın Yılı: 10 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Akademik Platform Eğitim ve Değişim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/apjec/issue/70228/994876
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1972277
