Makale Başlığı: Cylindrical Altar with Cornucopia Relief from Attouda
Özet: The ancient city of Attouda is a hill village situated on the Salbakos Mountain (Babadağ) range in Denizli province, Sarayköy district, Hisar Neighborhood (Village). Hisar village, which goes back to the Seljuk period, is located on the ancient city that serves as the border between the Phrygia and Caria Regions. Hisar village includes 143 registered structures, and it has been designated as an Urban Archaeological Site in addition to the Grade 1 Archaeological Site. The archaeological remnants of the Attouda settlement are rare due to the extensive residential texture on it. Archaeological data from the village reveal that Attouda began to emerge during the Hellenistic Period and grew prosperous throughout the Roman Imperial Period. The cylindrical altar with cornucopia, inventory number 170 at the Denizli Museum, is an artifact from the Hellenistic Period, as well as the city's first and only marble altar. Another feature of the altar in question is the two cornucopia reliefs on its shaft. Although Cornucopia reliefs were widely applied on altars made in Kos, Rhodes, and Coastal Caria throughout the Hellenistic Period, the decoration was usually placed in the center of the garlands that surrounding the shaft of the altar. The cornucopia relief applied on the Attouda altar has gained a unique quality that is not seen in other altars, since it is placed shaft independently of the garlands. It is especially significant since it is a high-quality work from the city's lesser-known Hellenistic Period (2nd century BC). In the Hellenistic Period, cylindrical altars were commonly associated with funerary buildings. However, the cylindrical altar depictions of Apollo, Men Karou and the tree cult on the coins of the ancient city suggest that the altar in question may have been used in a religious area related to the cults in the city.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bilge YILMAZ KOLANCI', 'Ozan GÜMELİ']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: OANNES - Uluslararası Eskiçağ Tarihi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/oannes/issue/72619/1146143
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2547897
