Makale Başlığı: A Study on Employment in Non-Life Insurance Companies: Fuzzy Regression Example
Özet: Purpose: In this study, factors affecting employment in non - life insurance companies were examined. These factors are the financial variables of insurance companies, including financial profit-loss, total net premiums, total assets and technical profit-loss.Methodology: Fuzzy regression method was used as the solution method.Findings: According to the results, the change interval of the financial variables was found significant at h = 09.  As a result, the change interval in total assets was % 0.0906, the financial profit was nearly “0”, technical profit/loss was % 0.0392 and the sum of premiums was % 62,04. Also, real employment data was found to be closer to the upper regression limit.Implications: The results obtained by the fuzzy regression method are quite better from the panel data solution method in terms of the consistency of the estimates. When it is desired to generate prediction models for the employment with financial variables of the companies in the sector, the fuzzy regression method is good at creating meaningful models and gives more consistent information about the coefficient of the related arguments. If the results of the study will be interpreted economically and socially; it was observed how internal variables, which are thought to affect the employment capacity of insurance companies, affect employment in insurance companies. It is observed that the increase in the size of premium gain in insurance companies has a positive effect on its employment. This effect will have positive effects on creating new employment in the insurance sector. This increase in employment will also have positive effects for the country's economy.Limitations: However, developing technology and making many insurance transactions online will cause companies to decrease their employment capacity even if their premium gain size increases. For example, there will be a decrease in needed field sales staff and number of agencies. In this case, on the contrary, it will increase the number of unemployed people in insurance sector and in the country. The decrease in employment and increasing unemployment will affect both people and the country's economy negatively. Economically, a negative outlook will occur in the domestic and foreign markets.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yusuf AKGÜL', 'Ahmet ŞENGÖNÜL', 'Fuat ÇAMLIBEL']
Yayın Yılı: 12 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Başkent Üniversitesi Ticari Bilimler Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jcsci/issue/72993/1148914
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2558075
