Makale Başlığı: Reconfiguring Authoritarianism: Post-Crisis Regime Consolidation in Algeria during the 1990s
Özet: The Algerian regime was contested by a democratization attempt and a civil war in the 1990s. However,it has succeeded to become a very robust regime since then. Even with the challenges that emerged inthe following decades such as the Arab Spring and the Hirak movement, the Algerian regime foundways to absorb protests and survive. Following the tumultuous decade of the 1990s, how was it possible for the Algerian elites to acquire such a robust authoritarian regime? How did the regime manageto escape from the political crisis of the decade with a reconfiguration and how did these changesaffect its dynamics of survival? Answering these questions, this article examines the transformationof the authoritarian regime in Algeria by carrying out a case analysis and supports its claims withinterviews conducted during fieldwork. According to that, the regime had used a rather limited toolsetfor its survival prior to the 1990s. However, while the regime reconfigured some of its old tools, itintroduced several new ones during the 1990s. The regime’s diversified toolset following this periodcan be categorized under three groups: The first is the old tools such as natural resources rents, thesecond is the reconfigured tools like a strengthened coercive apparatus and a redefined legitimacy, andthe third is the new tools such as starting to use political liberalization effectively and introducing themultiparty system to control the challenges from the opposition. Thanks to this reconfiguration, theAlgerian regime transformed into a robust and modern electoral authoritarian regime in the 1990s. Asa result, the regime became more successful in responding to challenges in the following decades. Withthese, based on the case of Algeria, this article aims at two things: explaining the reconfiguration of theAlgerian regime and making connections with the broader literature on comparative authoritarianismby examining an important example of how authoritarianism transforms in recent decades.
Yazar isimleri: ['M. Tahir KILAVUZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Marmara Üniversitesi Siyasal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/marmarasbd/issue/72775/1123399
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2455907
