Makale Başlığı: Relationship of Smartphone Addiction with Psychological Well-Being and Mental Health in Nursing Students
Özet: Objective: This study was conducted to reveal the relationship of smartphone addiction with psychological well-being and mental health in nursing students.Methods: The data of this cross-sectional study were collected from 481 students who agreed to participate in the study at a state university, Faculty of Health Sciences, Department of Nursing. Introductory Information Form, Smartphone Addiction Scale-Short Form, Psychological Well-Being Scale and General Health Questionnaire-12 were used for data collection. In the analysis of the data; Mann Whitney U, Kruskal Wallis test and Spearman correlation analysis were used besides descriptive analyses.Results: The average age of the students was 20.76±1.65 and 69 % was female. Looking at the scale averages, the Smartphone Addiction Scale-SF score was 29.98±10.06, the Psychological Well-Being Scale score was 38.46±8.74, and the General Health Questionnaire-12 score was 2.84±1.86. A statistically significant difference was found between gender, total smartphone usage time, daily smartphone usage time and the Smartphone Addiction Scale-SF (p<0.05). While there was not found statistically significant correlation between the Smartphone Addiction Scale-SF and the Psychological Well-Being Scale (p>0.05), there was found a statistically significant correlation with the General Health Questionnaire-12 (p<0.05).Conclusion: The average smartphone addiction score in nursing students was moderate and had a significant correlation with mental health. In line with these results, it can be suggested that intervention studies be carried out to reduce unnecessary use of the smartphone and improve mental health.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nihal BOSTANCI', 'Berna AKTAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 5 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Ordu Üniversitesi Hemşirelik Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ouhcd/issue/73709/939175
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1775610
