Makale Başlığı: Mental Health, Loneliness and Social Support during COVID-19 Pandemic among International University Students in North Cyprus
Özet: The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected the mental health of various populations. It is thought that international students are more affected by this situation among university students who are prone to mental disorders. For this reason, the aim of the current study was to investigate depression, anxiety, stress, loneliness and perceived social support among international students in North Cyprus during the COVID-19 pandemic. Depression, anxiety, stress, loneliness and perceived social support scores were compared between international students who stayed in Cyprus during the quarantine period and students who returned to their home countries and also the factors predicting depression, anxiety and stress scores among international students staying in Cyprus during the quarantine period were examined. The sample of the study included 262 students who were recruited using convenience sampling. A socio-demographic form, Depression Anxiety Stress Scale-Short Form, Revised University of California Los Angeles Loneliness Scale and Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support Scale were used for data collection. The results revealed that during the lockdown the students mostly worried about their health, their families’ health and their academic performance. International students who stayed in Cyprus during the lockdown had higher depression and lower perceived family support scores than the international students who travelled back to their home countries and were there during the lockdown. The result of hierarchical linear regression indicated that length of stay in Cyprus, perceived support of significant other and stress were predictors which explained 73% of variance in depression scores. Gender, monthly income and stress were significant predictors of anxiety which explained 63% of variance and grade, significant other support, depression and anxiety were predictors of stress which explained 78% of the variance. The current study result highlight that universities and states should consider social support and protective mental health programs for international students.
Yazar isimleri: ['Glorıa MANYERUKE', 'Deniz ERGÜN']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Kıbrıs Türk Psikiyatri ve Psikoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ktppdergisi/issue/72722/1103229
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2373362
