Makale Başlığı: A new work by Kirdeci Ali: The story of Prophet Moses and shepherd
Özet: The first products of Islamic Turkish literature that developed in Anatolia are texts of religious origin. The first studies, which started with the translation and interpretation of the Quran and suras, later diversified and continued with religious, mystical, moral and educational poetic work. It was aimed to popularize religion and to teach the principles of religion through various exemplary events and heroes with these short verse stories, which began to be widely seen especially in the 14th century. A fluent folk language and a clear Turkish are used in verse stories, which are often copied by unknown people in different times and fields. In addition to being important cultural treasures of the Turkish language with the idioms and proverbs they contain, the stories offer remarkable materials for detecting and following the archaic words, dialect features and thechanging phonetic and morphological language characteristics of the language. Because of theri shortness, stories are generally not standalone, but areincluded in magazines where various religious stories are collected. The work, which is the subject of our study, is located between pages 5a-7a of a magazine registered in France Biblioteque Nationale number 252. The story, whose original name is ḥikāyet-i Mūsā peygamber ‘aleyhi’s-selām, and which is about an event between the prophet Moses and the shepherd, belongs to Kirdeci Ali, who is thought to have lived in the late 14th century and the first half of the 15th century. In the story, it has been tried to convey the message that it is necessary to have a heartfelt and sincere love for Allah and that the important thing is not the outward but the inward. In the article, information about the writing features, phonetic and morphological knowledge and vocabulary is given and the text and facsimile of the story are presented as an appendix at the end of the study. In the study, attention was drawn to the importance of such folk tals in determining the developmental course of Turkish.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1192674
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2723087
