Makale Başlığı: Knowledge Levels of Preschool Teachers on Celiac Disease and Related Factors in Ankara City Center
Özet: Objective: In our study, it is aimed to determine the knowledge levels of pre-school teachers teaching in the city center of Ankara and related factors about Celiac.Materials and Methods: The universe of this descriptive study consists of 227 teachers working in public and private pre-school institutions located in the city center of Ankara. In the measurement of celiac knowledge level, each correct answer in the information form created by using the Ministry of Health Informing Guide for Celiac Disease Teachers was calculated as 1 point. Research data were collected by face-to-face interviews with teachers in all schools between 01.09.2019 and 01.03.2020.Results: Teachers were of the %96 female, their mean age was 34.68±8.45, and the mean celiac knowledge score was calculated as 25.71±10.14. When the knowledge point averages of the teachers are examined; Teachers who work in public schools (p=0.016), who have a nutrition-friendly school certificate in their school (p=0.019), who make specific plans for students who need special diets in classroom activities (p=0.024), and who find their celiac knowledge level sufficient with self-report (p<0.001) celiac knowledge score average is high.Conclusion and recommendations: The level of celiac knowledge was found to be low or moderate in two-thirds of the teachers participating in the study. The level of celiac knowledge is higher than the other groups in teachers who self-report and evaluate their knowledge as inadequate and who work in schools and public institutions that have a nutrition-friendly school certificate. Access to gluten-free products is important for the celiac student's access to safe food in the classroom and full participation in the activity. Celebrating World Celiac Day every year in order to raise awareness in administrators, teachers and students, and increasing teacher awareness with in-service trainings on Celiac should reduce the risk of celiac disease in the classroom and school environment.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gürcühan FİDAN', 'Deniz ÇALIŞKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 16 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Halk Sağlığı Hemşireliği Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jphn/issue/73789/1071628
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2246388
