Makale Başlığı: Problems Faced by Working Higher Education Students
Özet: This study aims to identify the problems and issues faced by working higher education students. The study was based on the general screening model. The students were reached through various social media platforms and 210 working students participated in the study. The majority of students had to work because they wanted to stand on their own feet (64.3%), could not afford the cost of their monthly income (60.5%) and did not want to be a burden to their families (48.6%). The other most important results of this study are that students are paid less than what they deserve for their labor in the working environment according to them, they work without insurance, work conditions are unhealthy and hard, working hours are excess, they do not receive their wages on time, they face with accidents due to being exhausted from school, their earnings do not cover their expenses of nutrition, accommodation, transportation, health, education, clothing and they face with discriminatory attitudes in the workplace. They are also subjected to verbal, emotional, physical abuse and sexism in the workplace. They fear that the workplace being unhealthy will trigger their illness and they will be sexually abused. They are frequently stressed and feel anxious about their studies because they are constantly working. Due to working, working students are late for their classes and they are not accepted into classes most of the time. Their working hours and class hours overlap so they are late to reach the workplace at the end of the courses. They cannot use public transportation and face issues going in or out of dormitories because the end of the work is late.
Yazar isimleri: ['İshak AYDEMİR', 'Vehbi ÜNAL', 'Bülent ÖNGÖREN']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Üniversite Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/uad/issue/73577/1060624
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2203159
