Makale Başlığı: Discussing of Duration Problem in the Poverty Alimony From the Perspective of Constitutional and Civil Law and Divorce Compensation as a Proposal
Özet: Poverty alimony, regulated in art. 175 of the TCC, is among the financial outcomes of divorce and is a type of care alimony.  Article 175 of the TCC includes the regulation that the spouse who will fall into poverty due to divorce can demand alimony from the other spouse sine die in proportion to his financial power. The term “indefinitely in the text of the article has caused controversy in the doctrine. Supreme Court has interpreted art. 175 of the TCC as a mandatory provision and make decisions in the direction of the judge’s lack of discretion regarding “indefiniteness”. Indefinite alimony is not based on the provision of art. 175 of the TCC. When the provision is examined both in terms of wording and purpose, it is understood that this result is clearly evident.The problem of adjudicating poverty alimony for an indefinite period is added to the problem of adjudicating "permanently in favor of the woman". Indefinite alimony, in practice, causes many grievances for both the alimony debtor and the alimony creditor. In this context, the violation of the basic constitutional rights and freedoms and personal rights in the sense of civil law comes to the fore. It is unfair to confront ex-spouses, who demand that all relations with each other be terminated as soon as possible through divorce, for a lifetime due to poverty alimony. In order to prevent these aforementioned grievances, it is suggested that a "divorce compensation", which is paid for once and has the nature of compensation, should be brought to the agenda.
Yazar isimleri: ['Seda BAŞ', 'Nisa ÖZCAN']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Ankara Sosyal Bilimler Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asbuhfd/issue/70306/1059706
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2199606
