Makale Başlığı: On the Relationship of Revelation with Poetry and Prophecy in Pre-Islamic Arabian and Ancient Greek
Özet: When the revelation of the Qur'an was revealed, the Arabs accused the Prophet of being a poet and a priest. The reasons underlying the Arabs for accusing the Prophet of being poetic and prophetic, of course, stem from the profile of the poet and soothsayer in their minds. Poetry and prophecy, which had the power to start and end wars, had an extremely important place in the life of the Arabs. Arab society, dominated by oral culture, gave great value to poetry and poets. According to them, the poet received his knowledge not by his own personal opinion, but by establishing internal relations with unseen beings. The poet does not say his poetry himself, but the jinn and so on. He believed that he was compelled to say it by beings. According to the Arabs, the situation of the soothsayer is not different from the situation of the poet. While the oracle was prophesying, harmonious words were poured out of his tongue. The soothsayer used to express that he did not own these harmonious words he conveyed, on the contrary, he took them from the unseen. Because of these and other factors, When the Prophet Mohammad started to convey the revelation of the Qur'an to people, the perception of poet and soothsayer in the minds of the Arab society was awakened. Hz. The fact that the Prophet received revelation through Gabriel, and Gabriel's being an unseen entity, led them to this accusation. The Qur'an strongly rejected these accusations of the Arabs, and repeatedly emphasized that the Prophet Mohammad neither was a poet nor a prophet. These accusations were mostly voiced by the Meccan community, who were not people of the Book. When the Medina period came, similar accusations began to decrease and were replaced by the people of the book, the prophet and so on. left to accusations. In this study, the Arabs' view of poetry and prophecy and when the Qur'an was revealed, The reasons for accusing the Prophet Mohammad of being poetic and prophetic were investigated. In order to better understand the place of the poet and the oracle in the Arab society and to support the fact that the poet and the oracle have the same value and function not only in the Arabs, but in all societies, the Ancient Greek's view of poetry and prophecy has been examined and their similarities have been revealed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Abdullah AKÇAY']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: İslami İlimler Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iiad/issue/73729/1195847
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2736088
