Makale Başlığı: Investigation of TORCH seroprevalence among pregnant women in a district
Özet: Aim: The aim of this study to evaluate the seroprevalence of toxoplasmosis, rubella, CMV, syphilis, HIV and hepatitis B&C infections among pregnant women at the first trimester in a district and to discuss whether it is necessary to screen for these infections during routine pregnancy follow -up.Materials and Method: This study included 259 pregnant women who applied to the single Obstetrics and Gynecology outpatient clinic in a district within one year.  Rubella IgM&IgG, toxoplasma IgM&IgG, CMV IgM&IgG, HBsAg, anti-HCV, anti-HIV and syphilis (VDRL-RPR) serologies were examined from the venous blood sample taken in the first trimester of pregnancy.Results: Rubella IgG antibodies detected in 255 (98.5%) patients, CMV IgG antibodies in 254 (98.1%) patients, toxoplasma IgG antibodies in 58 (22.4%) patients. Only one patient was positive for Anti-Toxoplasma IgM and IgG antibodies. None of the patients were positive for Rubella IgM, CMV IgM, anti-HCV and anti-HIV antibodies. HBsAg positivity was detected in 2 (0.8%) patients and VDRL-RPR positivity in other 2 patients. Positive results for Hepatitis B disease was confirmed by HBV DNA test in two patients and syphilis disease was confirmed by TPHA test in one patient.Conclusion: Due to the protective effects of rubella vaccination and acquired immunity in the pre-pregnancy period of CMV infection, screening for these infections during pregnancy may not be appropriate. The high seronegativity rates determined for toxoplasmosis in our region indicate that it will be useful to screen for toxoplasmosis in the first antenatal visit. If possible, in the preconceptional period, vaccination should be recommended after the routine screening for hepatitis B infection done. Considering the cost of the screening for hepatitis C, HIV and syphilis infections and low prevalence in our region, screening of high-risk groups seems more convenient. However, the Ministry of Health recommends that all pregnant women be screened for HIV and syphilis infections in line with the goals set by the United Nations.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatih KILIÇ', 'Burak ERSAK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Jinekoloji-Obstetrik ve Neonatoloji Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jgon/issue/72893/1021475
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2073126
