Makale Başlığı: Conservation of Urban Identity and Determination of Collective Memory Spaces
Özet: The concept of memory, which is the subject ofdiscussion of disciplines such as neurology, psychology, philosophy, andhistory, started to take place also in the discipline of architecture. The factthat spaces are a warning object for the creation or reminder of memory provesthat the concept of memory is directly related to the discipline ofarchitecture. The memory of the individual is not only formed by individualmemories but also by the spatial practices they experience in public spaceswhere social interaction takes place. The common memory of the society in thebuilt environment in which we exist is realized in many ways. The maininfluence that has always been seen in concrete form is the architecturalenvironment. The architecture that came into play at this point sometimescauses memory disruptions in the society which has difficulty in keeping upwith the rapidly changing and developing global era. Since the collectivememory damage causes sense of place, belonging, weakening of the sense ofcommunity and loss of place identity, it leads to the emergence ofindividualized, unhealthy communities. This study aims to propose a method foridentifying collective spaces by examining the concept of collective memory inthe literature. The recommended method consists of four stages; Contextualinvestigation of the architectural environment, determination of thedemographic characteristics of the society as a part of the architecturalenvironment, verbal interview with individuals and mental maps. The research aimsto reveal the threats and potentials for urban identity by identifying thememory cycles of collective memory spaces. With this proposed method,determination and preservation of urban identity through collective memoryspaces are aimed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Esra MUTLU', 'Ayşegül TANRIVERDİ KAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2019
Dergi ismi: İleri Teknoloji Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/duzceitbd/issue/51527/643357
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/918826
