Makale Başlığı: Legal Entity, Property and Liquidation of Fused Foundation
Özet: Regulations on foundations in our legislation were made within the framework of the old foundation and new foundation classification. Accordingly, foundations before the Civil Code of Turkish Law No. 743 were expressed as old foundations, and foundations established after the Code were expressed as new foundations. Old foundations have also been subjected to many classifications. The classification that is important for our subject is the classification of old foundations in terms of administrations. Old foundations in terms of their administration are fused foundations, annexed foundations, community foundations and artisan foundations. Fused foundations are old foundations that are under the legal personality of the General Directorate of Foundations, have their own legal personality and have separate properties from the directorate. Fused foundation goods are divided into two as fused wet foundation properties and fused charity foundation properties. Fused wet foundation gproperties are goods that are included in the assets of a fused foundation and generate income. Fused charity foundation properties are goods that are included in the assets of a fused foundation and are used directly for a charity. In addition to acquiring property, it is also possible for fused foundations to establish commercial enterprises or companies. However, for some reasons, old foundations are being liquidated. Liquidation is carried out in some cases against the concession price, in some cases without being subject to the concession price in accordance with the old Turkish Civil Code. There may also be liquidation of foundations that have lost their purpose and function or ipso facto liquidation.
Yazar isimleri: ['Merve ARSLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Sakarya Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/shd/issue/71506/1091984
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2326880
