Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of Non-Formal Religious Education Activities in Western Thrace According to the Views of Religious Officials
Özet: The status, legal status and rights of the Western Thrace Turks were determined by various treaties, especially in Lausanne. One of the most important of these rights is the election of muftis, who are equipped with wide religious and legal powers in line with the treaties, by the minority. However, status and rights are violated by the Greek administration on various occasions. The aim of this study is to try to evaluate the non-formal religious education services carried out in mosques by the elected mufti in line with the views of religious officials. In the research, qualitative research method in line with understanding and interpretive social science approach, phenomenology approach as research design was taken as basis. The first part of the research, which is planned to consist of two main parts, is determined as a theoretical framework and is based on the data obtained through document analysis technique and observations in the region. The second part is based on fieldwork. The universe of the study includes approximately 400 officials affiliated to the Mufti of Xanthi and Komotini, working under the elected mufti in the Western Thrace Region. The working group consists of 21 religious officials from the Chosen Mufti of Xanthi and Komotini. Purposive sampling technique was adopted in the determination of the study group. In the collection of data, firstly, interviews were held with the Elected Mufti of Komotini, Deputy Mufti of Komotini and Deputy Mufti of Xanthi, and then interviews were held with religious officials individually or in groups of two and three. It is understood that the election of muftis by preventing the election of muftis causes duality among the minority and negatively affects religious services, on the other hand, muftis' duties and powers are violated, and the foundations are damaged and plundered as a result of the mismanagement of the foundations by intervention and appointment by the administrators. Regarding non-formal religious education activities; It is among the important results that current issues, questions, needs and expectations of the congregation are taken into account in the determination of the sermon topics, and the Qur'an course activities are carried out five days a week, 2-3 hours after school lesson hours.
Yazar isimleri: ['İrfan SEVİNÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Academic Research Review
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tarr/issue/72766/1152212
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2569257
