Makale Başlığı: Historical Development of Women’s Rights in Turkey Between 1980-2000
Özet: Women’s rights and struggles on this issue have been seen throught history and in almost every society. Whether a country is developed or developing does not change this situation. With his forward-thinking leader identity, M. Kkemal Atatürk was very generous in granting women rights, according to the conditions of the time, and paved the way for women to be equal with men in a way thay society was not accustomed to. However, the lenght of this road is a difficult and difficult road fort he Turkish society, which has a traditional structure. 1923-1960; It consists of studies in the form of 1960-1980 and 2000 to the present. The first studies have been accepted anda re in the publication stage. The main purpose of these studies is to evaluate women’s rights within the historical development and to reveal the deficiencies and faults in this subject. In the research, primary sources were preferred and content analysis method was used. Parliamentary archive; National Library Archive; laws and regulations; Periodicals and studies on this subject were used in the research. Within the framework of the research, it was concluded that the issue of women’s rights was not adequately addressed even in the Assembly representing the people and the necessary steps were not taken to educate the society on this issue. The same is true for newspapers and magazines, and it is seen that it is women who defend and speak up for women’s rights, both before parties and in newspaper columns. The fact that the issue was not taken into account in the parliament, where men are in the majority, has caused the burden on the women, who is both a business woman and a housewife, to become heavier with the norms that traditional society expects from her. When the traditional society did not respond to what was expected of her, she was excluded from the society, beaten an deven murdered.
Yazar isimleri: ['Atiye EMİROĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Mevzu – Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mevzu/issue/72575/1151320
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2566868
