Makale Başlığı: The Effect Of Sports On Stress: An Example Of Hıgh School Students
Özet: The aim of the study is to investigate the effect of sports on the perceived stress level of high school students. The research model, which is one of the quantitative research types, was chosen for the research model. The sample of the study consisted of 255 high school students who voluntarily participated in the research. High school students of various demographic characteristics (gender, age and Sport Active Sport) that is created by the researcher to determine the “personal information form”, perceived stress levels, “to determine the perceived stress scale/ASO-14” was used. Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) 17.0 package program was used to analyze the data obtained. Whether the data showed a normal distribution was examined by skewness and Kurtosis values, it was determined that the data showed a normal distribution, so the T-test and Anova Test, which are parametric tests, were applied. Frequency, percentage, minimum, maximum, average and standard deviation values were also used in the analysis of the data. The level of significance as p<0.05 was determined. According to the findings obtained, it was determined that the high school students participating in the study were at a positive stress level, they were able to cope with stress effectively, and the coping mechanisms they used were functional. The perceived stress levels of the students showed a significant difference according to gender and sports age variable. The perceived stress levels of the students did not show a significant difference compared to the active sports variable. The most general conclusion that can be drawn from the study is that stress in liseli students can be improved through sports.
Yazar isimleri: ['Engin EFEK']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Yalova Üniversitesi Spor Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yalovaspor/issue/73210/1152772
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2571177
