Makale Başlığı: SOCIAL WORK INTERVENTION HISTORY AND CURRENT NEEDS IN CASES OF SUICIDAL BEHAVIOR
Özet: Purpose of the research to determine the problem history of the cases with suicidal behavior, the availability of professional support resources they consult, the level of effectiveness of these supports in ensuring well-being and current needs; to determine the structure and deficiencies of the social service and social assistance network for the solution of suicide, which is a public health problem, with a generalist social work perspective. In this study, which was planned with a qualitative approach, the cases determined by the purposive sampling technique and their relatives were interviewed using semi-structured interview forms. 31 cases were reached, a total of 55 people, 21 of whom were suicide attempters, were interviewed. In the study, case reports were prepared in the light of the data obtained as a result of the questions directed to the individuals who committed suicide and their relatives. The data were categorized by the researcher and analyzed descriptively. In this way, the data were defined and the data that were linked between them were brought together with the support of the literature. When the data is evaluated, it is seen that the problems causing suicidal behavior in 29 cases have a long history, and the cases and their families have complex problems. During the interviews, it was determined that not all of the relevant persons had a history of contact with a social worker in any health institution. These people, who have a history of chronic disease, a history of addiction, anger control problems, chronic family problems and long-term financial difficulties; he did not contact social workers in health institutions even for psychological support and counseling. This situation shows that there are deficiencies in both the detection of cases, the quality of service and the access of services to people, as well as the number and competence of personnel.
Yazar isimleri: ['Berra CANSIZ KÖSESOY', 'Musa ŞAHİN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Bingöl Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://busbed.bingol.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/73192/1165534
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2610218
