Makale Başlığı: In the Context of Transtextuality Relations Thematic Frame in Orhan Pamuk's Novels
Özet: Transtextual relations are the whole of literary or artistic interests that make it possible to read a literary text together with narratives other than itself, emerge largely due to synchronous reading and are determined depending on this reading experience. These interests, especially with the manifestation of medieval carnival culture in literature, are followed together with the phenomena of dialogue and polyphony in literature. It is determined that with the postmodernist texts, the transtextual relations have become an aesthetic element. Transtextuality forms, referential-oriented association relations such as citation, allusion, epigraph, internal narrative. It consists of derivative relations such as pastiche, parody, travesty and transtextual interests realized within the framework of rewriting. Orhan Pamuk's novels are evaluated in the line of avantgarde and experimental novels. In the foundation of this novel, the transtextuality and transaestheticality forms, as well as being an aesthetic element, constitute the stylistic frames of the novels as a theoretical basis. Transtextual relations in Orhan Pamuk's novels, which are handled on the basis of Gérard Genette's classification of transtextual relations, seem to have been fictionalized on the axis of architextuality, metatextuality, hypertextuality and referentiality relationship, and these works from a semantic whole with other canonized works. It is understood that each interest that constitutes the text and beyond the text is established in a way that constitutes a thematic or theoretical meaning. Pamuk, who provides the theoretical direction in his novel with his architextuality and metatextuality frames, forms the thematic framework of his own novel theory with the applications of referentiality and hypertextuality. With its transctextuality forms, Pamuk seems to emphasize the phenomena of “identity” and “selfness” around the East-West, double-goer or double-walker (German: Doppelgänger), and father-son themes that form the basic themes of his novels.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gizem KUNDURACI']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Selçuk Üniversitesi Edebiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sefad/issue/70218/1128339
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2476511
