Makale Başlığı: TRANSFORMATION OF VISUAL METAPHORS IN GRAPHIC INTERFACE DESIGNS FOR CHILDREN
Özet: The graphical interfaces used in digital game designs enable children to communicate between the application through visual metaphors and symbols. Visual metaphors used in designed game applications appear as a way of expression that recalls similarities with objects and is used in a way that refers to objects. If the symbols and icons used in game designs are familiar, the usability of the applications increases and plays an important role in the effective communication between the application and the child. Along with the changing graphic interface designs over time, icons that imitate real-world objects have evolved from skemorphic designs to flat designs and have directly affected the usability of applications. In this research, it is examined how the metaphors used in graphic interface designs are presented to children with game applications through the skemorphic and flat design approach. The research tries to reveal the effects of visual metaphors on children from the change and transformation process of graphic interface designs. The research was carried out through qualitative research methods, and the data obtained through the literature review were interpreted with the descriptive analysis method. The intelligibility of graphical interface designs, the metaphors used in the design process and the transformation process in graphical interface designs were examined through visual metaphors and the research was supported with examples on the research subject. The intelligibility of graphical interface designs, the metaphors used in the design process and the transformation process in graphical interface designs were examined through visual metaphors and the research was supported with examples on the subject. In the research, metaphors used in graphic interface designs for children were examined. According to the research findings, interface designs should be made understandable and disseminated for children.
Yazar isimleri: ['Oya Cansu DEMİRKALE KUKUOĞLU', 'Sevgi KOYUNCU']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Akdeniz Sanat
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/akdenizsanat/issue/71562/1120031
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2442008
