Makale Başlığı: YEARS IN EXILE IN THE NOTEBOOKS OF 150 PERSONAE NON GRATAE NAMIK HİLMİ
Özet: In this study, Namık Hilmi’s years in exile, which began in Egypt, and continued in Greece until his death, will be discussed based on his notebooks. Within this context, the friends he made, his thoughts on his friends, and his view on Kemalist Türkiye will be discussed.	There are four pocket-size notebooks in our archives about Namık Hilmi. The first notebook has 61 pages, and it includes notes he took from the time he left Istanbul until November 1931. The second notebook begins on November 9, 1931 and continues until the beginning of June 1935. It has 74 pages, but the first three pages are blank. The third notebook, which has 33 pages, begins on June 5, 1935 and continues until February 28, 1936. The fourth and final notebook has eighteen pages and covers the period between February 29 and October 26, 1936.	The notebooks of Namık Hilmi were not built on a political/ideologic theme. He rather took notes on facts about everyday life. Within this context, he provided detailed information about his journeys, the friends he made along the way, and about what he ate, and with whom he dined. Financial issues are given in great detail. As it can be seen in this study, Namık Hilmi noted detailed information on a daily basis about the time and amount of money he received from which individuals and institutions. He also gave detailed information about his spendings. He often wrote verses from Şair Eşref, Philosopher Rıza Tevfik, and Baba Rıfkı in his first two notebooks. He also wrote his own poems and he signed them as Namık Hicri. The themes of these poems are mainly about women and children, and most of them are pretty obscene. These poems will not be included in this study because of obscenity. Again, many of his poems about Kemalist Türkiye and its founders will be excluded, however, very few examples will be given in order to reveal his frame of mind and mentality.
Yazar isimleri: ['Şaduman HALICI']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Belgi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/belgi/issue/71335/1132425
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2493438
