Makale Başlığı: Effects of Climate Change on Apricot Harvest and Geographical Distribution in Malatya Province
Özet: In the 21st century, the environmental effects of climate change are gradually becoming prevalent and its impact on agriculture production is felt substantially. For this reason, in this study, Malatya which has the most intense apricot production in the world was selected and the influence of climate change as well as geomorphological structure on apricot was investigated. In the research, field observations, a questionnaire, and several meteorological and agricultural data sets were utilized. So as to determine the onset of the phenological season, the method of 6 consecutive days was used to define the launching of the growing period. For determining changes in temperature and frost parameters, Mann Kendall sequential statistical and linear trend analyses were used. According to questionnaire results, a decrease in yield and an increase in events that are detrimental to apricot, especially after the 2000s were determined. Regarding the linear trend analysis, it was observed that the annual average temperature totally increased by 2.4 ℃ between 1980 and 2020. Besides, in respect of the average temperature of the same period, the temperature increased at 1.3 ℃ was calculated. Meanwhile, it was found that the beginning of the apricot phenological stage moved by 20.2 days to an earlier time. In addition, it was detected that the late spring frost's occurring frequency numbers and duration increased and its effect was found to be vital to the apricot crop. In addition to these results, warming in climate allowed non-irrigated apricot cultivation in upland areas. As a result of, climate changes, several effects on the yield and geographical distributions of apricot products have been tried to reveal from different perspectives.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yunus Emre BALCIOĞLU', 'Coşkun KAYA', 'Mesut DEMİRCAN']
Yayın Yılı: 5 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: JENAS Journal of Environmental and Natural Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jenas/issue/72259/1136337
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2509473
