Makale Başlığı: KINALIZDE HASAN ÇELEBİ’YE GELİNCEYE KADAR ANADOLU’DA ŞU’AR TEZKİRECİLİĞİNİN GELİŞİMİ VE TEZKİRETÜ’Ş-ŞU’AR’NIN TANITILMASI
Özet: Writing a bibliography of biographical resources, a tradition which had emerged in the Islamic world was transferred without much modification to the Ottoman biography writing. Poet biographies were part of the tradition of writing bibliography of biographical resources. In Turkish literature, the tradition of writing poet biographies first emerged in the late fifteen century in the region of Cagatay. It was developed in the early sixteen century in Anatolia. The collection of biographies of Kinalizade Hasan Celebi, also known as Tezkiretu’s-Su’ara was written by Kinalizade Hasan Celebi between the years 1585 and 1586 (the year 994 by Islamic calendar). Before the Tezkiretu’s-Su’ara, the collections of biographies of Sehi, Latifi, Ahdi and Asik Celebi had been written in Anatolia. A great number of the manuscripts of Tezkiretu’s-Suara are present in libraries in Turkey and abroad. This collection of biographies includes a five-part introduction and three sections: on poet sultans, poet sultans’ descendants and actual poets, respectively. The sultans and their descendants are presented in chronological order in the first and second section, and the poets are presented in alphabetical order in the third section. Most of the third section includes biographies of sages and wise poets. Kinalizade Hasan Celebi work includes 642 poet biographies and added 122 new poet biographies not to be found in the earlier collections of biographies. This study presents the collection of biographies of Kinalizade Hasan Celebi, discusses the poet biographies written in Anatolia before Kinalizade Hasan Celebi, and offers a table of the poets mentioned in the collections of biographies
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Aralık 2013
Dergi ismi: Dede Korkut Türk Dili ve Edebiyatı Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dedekorkut/issue/4544/62490
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/52850
