Makale Başlığı: The Effects of Childhood Abuse and Neglect on Anxiety, Anxiety Sensitivity and Academic Success: A University Sample
Özet: AbstractObjective: Child abuse and neglect which are the leading problems all over the world can cause major physical and mental effects. This study was conducted to investigate the effects of childhood abuse and neglect on anxiety symptoms, anxiety sensitivity and academic success in young adults.Material and Methods: This descriptive study was conducted with 301 volunteer participants aged between 17 and 24 and studying in the first year of university. ISPCAN Child Abuse Screening Tools (ICAST-R), Beck Anxiety Scale and Anxiety Sensitivity Index-3 forms were answered by the students who agreed to participate in the study and the students were asked to indicate the University Entrance Exams score. The data were statistically evaluated in theSPSS 22.0 database.Results: Of the 301 students 39.20% who participated in the study were exposed to abuse at least once before the age of 18 years. The most common types of exploitation was emotional abuse. The mean of the total score of the students taken from the Beck Anxiety Scale was 15.55±11.58 and it was found that there was a statistically significant relationship between anxiety levels and abuse status (p<0.001). It was found that there was a statistically significant relationshipbetween exploitation and anxiety sensitivity levels also (p<0.001). There was a statistically significant relationship between a history of abuse and university entrance exams success (p<0.001).Conclusion: According to findings in our study, being abused and neglected have strong influences on anxiety, anxiety sensitivity, and university untrance uxams score. The results were highly parallel to other studies with young adults. The psychiatric and sociological consequences of child abuse and neglect in the future can be protected with a multidisciplinary approach and adequate rehabilitation can be provided.
Yazar isimleri: ['Esra Meltem KOÇ', 'Hilal AKSOY']
Yayın Yılı: 2 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Kahramanmaraş Sütçü İmam Üniversitesi Tıp Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ksutfd/issue/73295/977406
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1903451
