Makale Başlığı: Molecular Investigation of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus, Bovine Herpes Virus-1 and Bovine Herpes Virus-4 Infections in Abortion Cases of Cattle in Van District, Turkey
Özet: Abortions, fetal mummification, calf anomalies, and infertility problems constitute most of the reproductive problems in cattle. Viruses play a significant role in the cause of these cases. In cattle, these agents are known as primary abortion agents and the most common of these agents are Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV), Bovine Herpes Virus Type 1 (BoHV-1), and Bovine Herpes Virus Type 4 (BoHV-4). The objective of this research is to determine the potential role of BVDV, BoHV-1, and BoHV-4 as viral abortion agents in cattle housed in the Van district. For this, a total of 115 animal specimens (blood, serum, vaginal swab, vaginal fluid discharge, nasal swab, and abortion material) from 100 abortion, early embryonic deaths, and infertility cases in cattle over the age of 2-5 years old were collected. All samples for detection of BVDV, BoHV-1 and BoHV-4 genomes were tested by the Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) technique using specific primers encoding Panpesti 5'-UTR, Glycoprotein C (gC) and Glycoprotein B (gB) genes, respectively. Result out of the samples tested, 41.73% were positive for BVDV and all samples were negative for BoHV-1 and BoHV-4. In conclusion, the presence of BVDV in cattle in the Van region and its role in the occurrence of abortion cases was emphasized for the first time. It is necessary to the consideration of viral abortions and determine the etiology of abortion cases and genital system problems. According to this, we need to focus on the detection of persistently infected (PI) animals for prevention and control of infection and the most effective way of vaccinating susceptible populations.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hatice YILDIZ', 'Ali Riza BABAOGLU']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Van Veterinary Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/vanvetj/issue/73594/1165216
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2608988
