Makale Başlığı: The Issue of Judicial Review of Presidentıal Decrees in State of Emergency in the Context of the Rule of Law Principle
Özet: The principle of the rule of law is the guarantee of the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms and the provision of legal security. Pursuant to this principle, it is essential that the activities of state organs be subject to judicial review. The judicial review of the decrees issued in the state of emergency is prevented by Article 148 of the Constitution. The prohibition of judicial review of these decress, was widely discussed in the context of the decrees in the state of emergency before the constitutional amendment in 2017. The Constitutional Court has made two different jurisprudence on the subject. In its 1991 decision, the Constitutional Court argued that it could examine the decrees in the state of emergency on the merits. Until 2016, it repeated this decision on similar grounds. In 2016, the Court changed its jurisprudence and stated that it did not have the authority to examine these decrees due to the prohibition in Article 148 of the Constitution. With the constitutional amendment of 2017, the decrees in state of emergency have been replaced by presidential decrees in the state of emergency. It has been added to the Constitution that the said decrees will be debated and decided in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey within three months, unless the Grand National Assembly of Turkey cannot convene due to war and force majeure events, otherwise they will automatically be annulled. This provision is an affirmative and important development in terms of the rule of law. However, the fact that the prohibition of judicial review was preserved for the stage before the enactment of these decrees in the Parliament can be considered as an indication that the debates on this issue will continue. In this article, by comparing the elements of the old and new decrees, the prohibition of judicial review will be evaluated in the scope of the Constitutional Court's jurisprudence within the framework of the rule of law.
Yazar isimleri: ['Seniha Begüm ŞENTOP']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: İstanbul Medipol Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/imuhfd/issue/69681/1138414
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2517307
