Makale Başlığı: EXAMİNATİON OF P. CLODEMIR'S TRUMPET METHOD
Özet: Instrument training, which is an important sub-training area of music education, involves a wide range of learning and teaching methods extending from the beginner level to the mastery level. Regardless of the level, the methods used are one of the most important factors in this process. Although the trumpet education has been carried out for a long while with a systematic way in the world as well as in our country, the number of methods written for the trumpet is rather limited. This is an important issue in front of us regarding the selection of the most suitable methods after a thorough investigation of all available methods. In this study, we investigated the method titled "P. Clodomir Methode Complete de Trompette a Pistons", which is widely used in the trumpet education, from the perspective of the beginner level, the contents of the exercises, tones, information about scales, instrument playing styles, and duet contents. The study was conducted with the content analysis method, which is one of the qualitative analysis methods. In the study, a total of 252 exercises and duets included in the Clodomir method were investigated for the abovementioned parameters. Considering the investigated contexts, we concluded that the method was suitable for the beginner level, the etudes were planned based on a spiral progress method for the development of the performer, it did not contain information about the lip position and use of the mouthpiece, and the levels of the participants were ignored in the teacher-student duets. It was found that 16.7% of the investigated exercises required beginner level skills, 51.9% intermediate level, and 31.4% advanced level skills. The obtained results were explained in tables in the related sections. We believe that this study will be a guiding source for the trumpet teachers and students.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hamza ÜSTÜN']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: İnönü Üniversitesi Kültür ve Sanat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijca/issue/71606/1106553
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2386776
