Makale Başlığı: SUSTAINABLE HYDROGEN PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGIES: BIOMASS-BASED APPROACHES
Özet: Hydrogen, an important energy carrier, is not a natural energy source but is produced using natural gas, water, coal, and biomass. In recent years, researchers have turned to sustainable hydrogen production and environmentally friendly solutions as an alternative to the development of existing hydrogen production sources and technologies. The necessity of developing sustainable energy technologies and ensuring energy supply security with renewable resources is investigated in this study, biomass-based hydrogen production technology. In this study, in which the importance of converting biomass raw materials to hydrogen is emphasized, hydrogen production from biomass is examined under three main headings: thermochemical, biological and electrochemical conversion methods and different methods within them. While thermochemical processes are explained as pyrolysis, gasification, and supercritical water, biological processes are examined in four groups as direct fermentation, indirect fermentation, photo fermentation, and dark fermentation. The electrochemical process is specified as PEM and MEC. Although literature studies mostly use thermochemical methods for hydrogen production, it is important to work with biological processes for longer-term sustainable results. Thermochemical processes are very high-efficiency processes and the development and use of suitable catalysts greatly affect the yield. The use of catalysts also reduces tar formation, which is very important for process efficiency. In particular, removing or significantly reducing tar, which is one of the biggest problems of biomass-based thermochemical processes, is important in making biomass-based hydrogen production processes more sustainable. Optimizing the process conditions in biological processes, making arrangements to make production economical, and increasing the efficiency of the amount of hydrogen produced by these methods are among the main objectives. In biological processes, hydrogen production by dark fermentation and photo fermentation methods comes to the fore. These methods, which have a lower efficiency compared to thermochemical methods in terms of hydrogen yields, are not yet economical compared to thermochemical processes. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Kübra AL', 'Ezgi BAYRAKDAR ATEŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Bartın Üniversitesi Uluslararası Fen Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jonas/issue/69173/1101384
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2365887
