Makale Başlığı: Shaman Theonims ın Conceptual Context
Özet: The main feature of Turkish mythology is its presentation in the shaman edition. Shamans reconstituted the Turkish religious-mythological system with the mystical world of theonims. By renewing the Turkish cosmogony, they brought many additions to it. Particular attention was paid to the creation of the universe, the cosmic order, the higher spirits, their activities, the social structures of these spirits, their mutual aid or struggle. Since myth is a reflection of the collective consciousness of humanity, it has a universal character. The most important feature that distinguishes myths from other narrative types is the sanctity of the myth text and its religious function. Although this feature may vary in different forms, it is essentially unchanging. In that respect, myths reveal the characteristics, social and cultural structure, world of belief of every tribe, every age. In any case, ethnic characteristics and geographical conditions cannot be ignored. In this context, Turkish mythology differs from Greek, Egyptian, Sumerian, and Native American mythologies, as well as its neighbors China, Mongol, Korea, etc. it also differs from mythologies. The natural events that the shamans objectify and call "possessions" organize life by bringing people into harmony and establishing a balance between objects and beings. Shaman mythology is generally folkloric in the context of the text. All the poetic prayers, verbal data are focused on the spirits. These spirits are the shaman's helpers, army, protectors, or nature possessors to whom the shaman appeals. This article will be the subject of researching the mythological theonims of shamanic culture carriers, which have been deformed for many years but preserved their basic elements.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fuzuli BAYAT']
Yayın Yılı: 16 Mayıs 2022
Dergi ismi: AKRA Kültür Sanat ve Edebiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/akrajournal/issue/69842/1072096
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2248045
