Makale Başlığı: Effects of Black and Clear Mulches Treatments on Lateral Branching, Morphological and Fruit Characteristics of Prunus avium cv. “Sweet Heart”
Özet: In this study, the effects of mulch treatments on branching and fruit characteristics of sweet cherry cv. Sweet Heart treated with perlan (GA4+7+BA) were investigated. Sweet Heart seedlings grafted on “Mazzard rootstock”. Grafted trees were planted as 3 replicates and 8 saplings per replicate. Mulch materials were applied at the end of March and perlan was applied when the average plant height reached 50 cm. The data were collected in November 2013 (tree and branch characteristics), June 2015 (fruit characteristics), and April 2016 (Number of flowers). Plant height, stem diameter, the height of the first branch, lateral branch numbers, lengths, diameters, and angles, yield per plant, number of fruits per plant, fruit-bearing tree rate, fruit diameter, and the number of flowers per plant were investigated. Statistically significant results were observed for all parameters evaluated. Black mulch (BM) treatment was found as the most effective on all traits except the number of flowers per plant. As a result of the BM treatment, lateral branches per plant (1.71), branch angle (48.50o), branch length (27.23 cm), and branch diameter (6.73 mm) values were obtained. Also, fruit weight per plant (79.77 g), number of fruits per plant (11.80), fruit diameter (23.38 mm), and fruit-bearing tree rate (6/7) were obtained in BM treatment. Nevertheless, the maximum number of flowers (83.67) per plant was observed on clear mulch (CM) treatment in the second year. Based on the observations, well-developed lateral branch formation caused by BM treatment may be useful for nursery tree producers. Also, BM-treated trees had the highest fruit yield per plant for the first fruit year, while CM provided the highest fruit yield in the second year.
Yazar isimleri: ['Murat ŞAHİN', 'Ahmet EŞİTKEN', 'Lütfi PIRLAK']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye Teknoloji ve Uygulamalı Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tubid/issue/73186/507034
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/616944
