Makale Başlığı: The Life of Muhammad Shirin-i Maghribi and Translation of His Jam-i Jihan-numa by Tahir al-Mawlawi
Özet: Muhammad Shirin-i Maghribi is a sufi poet who lived between the last half of the 8/13th and the beginning of the 9/14th centuries. There are also Arabic and Turkish poems in the divan of Maghribi, who wrote mostly in Persian. He is one of the pen holders who successfully transferred the terms of Ibn al-Arabi to Persian. However, there are very few studies about his life. This situation reveals the need for a comprehensive study on the life of the Maghribi in Turkish.In this study, the life of Maghribi has been tried to be discussed by using the source critique and comparison method by applying to all the sources that can be accessed from both general and special histories and poet biographies. In addition, contemporary studies were also taken into account, the correct ones were pointed out, and the mistakes were tried to be corrected. Thus, it has been tried to reveal a healthy text about the life of the Maghribi in our language and to form the basis for further studies on the Maghribi. Since Maghribi's works and the content of his Jam-i Jihan-numa were discussed in Mehmet Temelli's work, it was not necessary to repeat them in this study. In addition, since the determination of Maghribi's sufi thought requires other and more voluminous studies, this has not been attempted in this article.In the study, the discussions about the main points of Maghribi's life and the tariqa he was a follower of were touched upon, and some results were reached by criticizing the sources on these issues. In addition, it has been concluded that he is the heir of Ibn al-Arabi in terms of his thought and Fahr al-din-i Iraqi and Mahmoud-i Shabestari in terms of poetry. Beside this, the translation of his famous work, Jam-i Jihan-numa, on the stages of existence, made by Tahir al-Mawlawi, has been transferred to today's letters, thus the said work has been brought into our language.
Yazar isimleri: ['Abdulrahman ACER']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Sufiyye
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sufiyye/issue/70785/1110823
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2404719
