Makale Başlığı: A Symbolic Approach to the Jewish New Year: Rosh Hashanah in Antakya
Özet: Jews are one of the communities that have lived in Antakya for many years. The aim of this research is to analyze the rituals of the Jews living in Antakya with a symbolic approach in the context of their time perception and beliefs. Religious festivals are rituals framed by rules around many symbolic traditions maintaining religious identity and drawing boundaries with the other. Rosh Hashanah is the Jewish New Year’s Day and is celebrated in the second week of September. The start of a new year includes a number of symbolic behaviors and consumption traditions that are obligatory in this festival. In this study, in which the field research method was used, the findings obtained by participatory observation and in-depth interview techniques were tried to be described with a symbolic approach.  The relations between religion and food are revealed through the functions of sacred or taboo foods and beverages which are considered sacred by the community. These communities transform foods and beverages into a taboo or sacred field in line with their religious beliefs and practices. This field is created by re-attaching symbolic meanings to foods and beverages in the light of religious beliefs and practices. The symbolic meaning network of foods and beverages consists of the formation of cultural memory through religious communities, holy books, religious leaders, and oral traditions and of making them objects of religious rituals. In conclusion, it can be said that the religious identities of the Jews living in Antakya and the symbolic bond they establish with food is extremely important in maintaining the "Judaism" identity.   
Yazar isimleri: ['Kadriye ŞAHİN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası İnsan Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/uicd/issue/70572/1121516
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2448030
