Makale Başlığı: PLAY BEHAVIORS AND SOCIAL STATUS IN YOUNG CHILDREN
Özet: This study aimed at investigating the social status of young children in terms of play behaviors. The sample group included 144 children (5-6 years old). Personal Information Form, Selection-Based Sociometry Technique, and The Preschool Play Behavior Scalewere used as data collection tools. Personal Information Form and The Preschool Play Behavior Scale were filled in by the teachers separately for each child. The Selection-Based Sociometry Technique was applied to the children individually. According to the findings of the study, social play and reticent play behaviors of preschool children statistically significantly predicted the level of being liked by their peers. Solitary passive, rough play, and solitary active play behaviors did not significantly predict the levels of being liked by their peers. Social play, rough play, and reticent play behaviors significantly predicted the levels of being disliked by their peers. Solitary passive and solitary active play behaviors did not significantly predict the levels of being disliked by their peers. Social play, rough play, and reticent play behaviors significantly predicted the levels of social preference. Solitary passive and solitary active play behaviors of young children did not significantly predict their social preference levels. The rough play behaviors significantly predicted the levels of social influence. Social, solitary passive, reticent, and solitary active play behaviors of young children did not significantly predict their social influence levels. Social play, rough play, reticent play, and solitary active play behaviors of preschool children differed according to their popular, rejected, excluded, and controversial positions. Solitary passive play behaviors did not differ according to social status.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hülya GÜLAY OGELMAN', 'Selay AKDOĞAN', 'Döne KAHVECİ', 'Derviş AMCA TOKLU']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Eğitim Bilim ve Teknoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/uebt/issue/72401/1126872
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2470213
