Makale Başlığı: Panslavism and the Reasons of its Failure
Özet: Panslavism is the general name of the movement that aims to establish a large Slavic State that will include all Slavs under Russian leadership. While talking about a "religious" union in the 17th and 18th centuries, it has evolved into a "race" based on the 19th century. It should be accepted that it played a limited role in the independence of the Balkan Slavs in the 19th century. Due to the bad situation of the Ottoman Empire and the influence of the nationalist movement, there was a lack of authority in the Balkans, where Russia could dominate, and Panslavism policies started to be implemented.  Panslavism did not find a response when the Ottoman Empire was strong, because the satisfaction of the people from the administration is more important than the sentiments of nationalism. When the Ottoman Empire became unable to rule the Slavic peoples and the idea of nationalism, which the French Revolution had laid, came to life in the Balkans, but then started the seperation from the Ottoman Empire. In this sense, it can be studied that Panslavism has only a limited influence on the Balkan territories, but has never reached the ultimate goal to unite all the Slavs under the same roof. The fact that the Slavs had different languages and cultures in the past, they did not have a homogeneous structure and the great European states (as an example, the support of the Ottoman Empire in the Crimean War) did not want to see Russia so strong and they wanted to balance it, can be shown as the reasons why Panslavism was a failure. Panslavism was first used to influence the Slavs under the religion (orthodoxy), then the cultural and linguistic domain, and later on a political identity, that is, it did not follow a steady course that evolved into different meanings over time and did not have a single meaning. Russia has turned its goal of Slavlaism into Russianization over time. As Russia attempted to force the different cultures under Russian pressure, this situation was met with reaction
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Haziran 2018
Dergi ismi: Akademia Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asj/issue/40224/479039
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/568057
