Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Media on Consumer Sensitivity to Genetically Modified Foods: The Case of Samsun Province, Türkiye
Özet: The research aims to reveal the effect of the media on the sensitivity of the consumers residing in the urban area of Atakum district of Samsun province (Türkiye) to Genetically Modified (GM) foods. The material of the research consists of questionnaires made with 196 consumers who are influential in the family's food purchase decision. According to the results of the research, it has been determined that 33.16% of consumers are sensitive, 35.72% are partially sensitive, and 31.12% are not sensitive to GM foods. There is a statistically significant difference between the sensitivity groups of consumers in terms of age and occupation. Among the information sources of consumers, television, one of the classical media tools, takes first place in three groups. Internet use frequency was determined as a few hours a day in all groups. The most used social media tools in all three groups are WhatsApp, Instagram, and Facebook, respectively. Since the effects of GM foods on health are not yet known in the world, some non-governmental organizations and professional organizations have negative opinions about the consumption of GM foods. Despite negative opinions, it is thought that GM foods should be consumed in underdeveloped countries to meet their nutritional needs due to their lower cost of production. In this respect, the production of GM foods has increased in recent years by developed countries to be exported to underdeveloped countries. Some high-income consumers who are sensitive to food safety, on the other hand, sometimes consume these products unintentionally, even though they do not want to. What is important here is to ensure that consumers are informed correctly about GM foods through effective media tools.
Yazar isimleri: ['Osman KILIÇ', 'Gamze AYDIN ERYILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye Tarımsal Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tutad/issue/73473/1172626
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2639494
