Makale Başlığı: Investigation of the Effect of Teachers' Cultural and Social Capital Competencies on their Professional Performance / Öğretmenlerin Kültürel Ve Sosyal Sermaye Yeterliklerinin Mesleki Performansları Üzerindeki Etkisinin İncelenmesi
Özet: The aim of this research is to determine the relationship between teachers' cultural and social capital competencies and their professional performance. For this purpose, the data were collected via using three scales measuring teachers' cultural and social capital competencies and professional performance. The data were obtained from 596 participants selected by simple random sampling method among 4566 teachers working in official public schools in Siirt province in 2020. Statistical methods such as descriptive analysis, hierarchical regression analysis and partial correlation were used in the analysis of the data. The results shows that teachers' cultural capital levels were high, social capital levels were moderate, and professional performance perception levels were high. The effect of social capital and then effect of social capital and cultural capital on professional performance is examined respectively. According to the results; social capital alone explains occupational performance at the rate of 17 percent, while the explanatory value of social capital and cultural capital on professional performance was determined at the level of 36 percent by including cultural capital in the model. An important finding was obtained at the result of partial correlation values. When the effect of social capital is controlled, the effect of cultural capital on professional performance increases; When cultural capital is controlled, the effect of social capital on professional performance decreases. This shows the dominant effect of cultural capital rather than social capital on teachers' professional performance. As a result of the research, it is concluded that cultural capital and social capital are important predictors of teachers' professional performance and that cultural capital outweighs these two predictors, and that some of the effect of social capital on professional performance is due to cultural capital. In this case, we can say that strengthening the cultural capital competencies of teachers will increase professional performance. At the same time, teachers' social capital levels should be moderate, they should not predict professional performance as much as cultural capital, and all stakeholders should fulfill their responsibilities in order to make the outputs of education more qualified by focusing on organizational problems such as barriers to collective action and individualization, which are possible problems behind this.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zakir ELÇİÇEK', 'Yunus Emre AVCI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: e-Uluslararası Eğitim Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://www.e-ijer.com/tr/pub/issue/73267/1171472
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2634543
