Makale Başlığı: Archaeological Researches in Atakum: Prehistory of Kamaz Valley and Its Surroundings
Özet: We identified many archaeological localities as a result of the intensive archaeological surveys in and around Kamaz Valley (Atakum/Samsun). We reached conclusions regarding prehistoric periods in Dombalaktepe, Gucuktepe, and Kümbettepe settlement mounds. The existence of original culture in the coastal part of the Samsun Region is one of the question marks in our research, and the dates when the settlement started and what kind of process it underwent was our other question. The response from a small number of settlement mounds and a limited number of surface finds has led us to ask new questions and discuss the available data with temporary suggestions. Accordingly, based on its current appearance, the area, which is not rich in raw materials, appears to be the land of a transhumance community, which prefers a farmer/gatherer lifestyle and makes livestock and hunting. A small number of chipped stone finds confirm this. Its potteries, on the other hand, are a little more complex; Dark Faced Burnished/Unburnished Ware, which includes red-black groups, makes up the dominant majority. White paint ornaments on black face ware, called "White-Painted Pottery", whose traditional origins and development we have seen in the Aegean and Western Anatolia, offer relatively more custom comparisons. Other than these, examples with chaff-face pottery and impressed pot base reflect traditions that refer to early times. Compared to Ware groups, vessel forms are harder to characterize. Yet we have indirect evidence to look for all this chronologically in the LC and beginning of EBA period.
Yazar isimleri: ['Atila TÜRKER']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Ordu Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Sosyal Bilimler Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/odusobiad/issue/73138/1181145
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2675409
