Makale Başlığı: Bibliometric analysis of research on human resources management (2017-2021)
Özet: Human Resources Management (HRM) includes all efforts to design systems that play a role in making decisions regarding employees, in the implementation of organizational strategies, and to improve the quality of working life. It is seen that bibliometric studies, which have gained momentum in recent years, are frequently used to reveal trends in various subjects within the scope of HRM. Bibliometric studies are preferred to analyze the current status of studies in the discipline of HRM and to better understand the theoretical structures. The aim of this study is to examine 2197 articles published between 2017-2021 in the journals with the word group "Human Resources" in the title in the Web of Science databasewhich are indexed in Social Science Citation Index (SSCI)and Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI), using bibliometric analysis methods. Articles published in 12 different journals on the HRM theme; The keywords, authors, citations,and references were analyzed using VOSviewer software. As a result of the analysis, it was seen that the most cited studies were in the "International Journal of Human Resource Management".  According  to  the  findings,  it  has  been  determined  that  the  subjects  of  "job  satisfaction",  "talent management",  "leadership"  and  "commitment  to  work"  are  the  most  frequently  studied  subjects.  In  addition, clusters emerged on the basis of the most frequently used keywords. In addition to the analyseslisted, co-citation analysis was conducted on the basis of the most cited authors, journal, reference and citation. It is thought that this study reveals the trends in current studies in prestigious HRM journals with high impact factor.
Yazar isimleri: ['Merve GERÇEK']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Ömer Halisdemir Üniversitesi İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ohuiibf/issue/73154/1063903
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2216365
