Makale Başlığı: Perfectionism: Its Structure, Transdiagnostic Nature, and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
Özet: The term perfectionism is often characterized by insisting that everything should be perfect and flawless, believing in only one truth, and having difficulty transforming perspectives and thoughts. Although perfectionism is not a newly introduced concept in the literature, it has recently become one frequently aired both in research and daily life. The popularity of the concept in empirical studies stems from both its dual nature and its alleged roles in the origin, emergence, retention, and treatment of various psychological disorders. Indeed, despite the abundance of evidence that perfectionism is multifaceted within two major dimensions (perfectionist strivings and perfectionist concerns), it is still debated that the dimensions in different numbers better represent the construct. In addition, the relevant literature hosts diverse views and criticisms about which sub-dimensions the two higher-order dimensions will consist of, whether the conceptual content of a combination of these sub-dimensions is positive or negative, and how to calculate the total impact of the sub-dimensions. On the other hand, previous research consistently addressed the relationship of perfectionism with different psychopathologies and comorbidities. In this respect, it is also deemed important to discuss perfectionism in psychotherapy because even settling perfectionist traits may bring about improvements in more than one disorder associated with perfectionism. Thus, the Cognitive Behavioral Approach (CBT) conceptualized perfectionism (clinical perfectionism) and presented techniques for therapy. Moreover, the evidence is also proliferating for the efficiency of CBT for perfectionism. Therefore, in this article, the current literature on the structure, transdiagnostic nature and cognitive behavioral therapy of perfectionism has been reviewed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Servet KAÇAR BAŞARAN']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Psikiyatride Güncel Yaklaşımlar
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/pgy/issue/68249/1082001
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2286403
