Makale Başlığı: A Study on Evaluation Method and Urban Water Security, Integrated Urban Water Management
Özet: Today, many cities are faced with significant difficulties in terms of water supply and management. Integrated Urban Water Management   requires addressing together urban development and watershed management in order to achieve sustainable economic, social and environmental objectives. All of the water supply, sanitation, rainwater and wastewater management issues should be considered as a whole with land use planning and economic development. The purpose of an Integrated Urban Water Management approach is to integrate with other urban sectors such as land, housing, energy and transport with planning water sector in order to avoid fragmentation or recurrence in the process of policy making and decision making. In many countries, it is very difficult to ensure urban water security. While few studies have assessed water security at the regional level, many have highlighted the lack of assessment of water security and implementation of measures in order to be successful at the urban level. Studies focused on measuring urban water security are not holistic, and there is still no consensus on how to define and use an assessment framework to measure the current state and dynamics of water security. Currently, there is no clearly defined and widely approved definition of urban water security. this study, aiming to cope with this challenge, will provide an assessment framework applicable to urban settlement and urban areas, and a systematic work description to better understand urban water security. The proposed work description of urban water security is based on the United Nations' sustainable development goal regarding water and sanitation, and human rights. The assessment framework used to ensure urban water security is based on drinking water and people, ecosystem, climate change and water-related hazards and socio-economic factors. Implementing this framework will help governments, politicians and water stakeholders target at scarce resources more effectively and sustainably.
Yazar isimleri: ['Cengiz KOÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Avrupa Bilim ve Teknoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ejosat/issue/71415/1104414
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2378036
