Makale Başlığı: COVID-19 Pandemisinde Homeopatinin Kullanımı
Özet: Covid-19 is a pathogen that negatively affects the entire body system, especially the respiratory system. This new type of coronavirus epidemic, which increased uncontrollably in a short time, was declared as a pandemic due to its rapidly increasing spread throughout the world. The signs and symptoms of coronavirus are similar to those of other viral upper respiratory tract infections. The severity of symptoms varies depending on the patient's immune system, age, and presence of other chronic diseases. The lack of a proven cure for this epidemic has challenged research groups around the world and has prompted a shift towards traditional and complementary medicine practices, including homeopathy. Throughout history, homeopathic remedies have been used in many epidemics and bacterial/viral diseases such as dengue fever, Chikungunya fever, Spanish flu and malaria. Homeopathic symptoms rather than pathognomonic (diseasespecific) symptoms were considered in the selection of these remedies. Homeopathy, which is a natural and holistic healing method; it has also been used in the treatment of coronavirus in many countries, and it has been found that high success has been achieved in the majority of cases, and the symptoms have largely disappeared, and in some cases, the symptoms have completely disappeared. However, since these symptoms may differ for each patient, it is necessary to evaluate the patient holistically in order to determine the appropriate remedy. In epidemic cases, Genius Epidemicus; common symptoms associated with the epidemic are determined and homeopathic remedy is determined according to the symptoms of the person. In the article, some of the remedies that can be used for the symptoms of Covid-19 in line with the studies are presented. In this direction; in patients diagnosed with Covid-19, homeopathic symptoms can be determined by taking a detailed anamnesis and homeopathic remedies specific to these symptoms can be used.
Yazar isimleri: ['Emir AVŞAR', 'Adalet KUTLU', 'Hediye ARSLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Geleneksel ve Tamamlayıcı Anadolu Tıbbı Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gtatder/issue/67886/942181
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1785804
