Makale Başlığı: Bibliometric Analysis of Studies on Environmental Sociology
Özet: The main purpose of this study is to examine the researches on environmental sociology in the world by bibliometric analysis method. With this aim, 554 resources related to environmental sociology in the indexes scanned in the Web of Science (WoS) database were reached. When only the articles published on environmental sociology in the field of sociology were considered out of 554 sources, the data of the research was 237 and the research was limited. Research data were analysed in two stages. The first of these is the descriptive analysis of the data obtained from the WoS database, and the other is the diagram analysis of the data through the VOSviewer software. Considering the distribution of the articles published according to the descriptive analysis by years; It was observed that the publication life on environmental sociology started in 1987 and there was a rapid increase after 2008. When we look at the most published and cited journals, it is seen that “SOCIETY & NATURAL RESOURCES”, “SOCIOLOGICAL FORUM” and “SOCIAL SCIENCE RESEARCH.” According to the diagram analysis, in terms of the data processed by the VOSviewer program, the filtering method of the data related to environmental sociology was applied and 19 institutions were obtained. Among these institutions, Utah, Oregon and Carolina State Universities, which are the most cited and published, are among the most prominent of the diagram clusters. Another result obtained in the research is that when we look at the most cited and publishing countries, America is in the first place. Canada and the UK come next. When we look at the result of the common word analysis, 42 words that are the same according to the criteria of using at least 3 times out of 590 words have been reached. The most prominent words in the diagram are the words "environmental sociology", "climate change" and "sustainability". Finally, when the co-author analysis is considered in terms of the author, it is seen that the most published and cited articles have the strongest relationships between the authors, although Dunlap and Catton are not. It sheds light on future studies in line with the results obtained from this research and the keywords obtained. It is recommended that the next studies be more detailed and consider the sub-disciplines of environmental sociology.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bilal KILINÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Mayıs 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye Bilimsel Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tubad/issue/70039/1079522
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2276719
