Makale Başlığı: Praise for Crime in Digital Networks: An Analysis on Social Media for Social Awareness of Immigrant Smuggling
Özet: Turkey is considered as a transit country in the international conjuncture. Irregular migrants who want to immigrate to European countries are using Turkey as a passageway. Transit migration mobility triggers migrant smuggling in the country. Smuggling of migrants, defined as a crime against the state, is legally sanctioned. Despite that fact, crime couldn’t be prevented. Many immigrants have been victimized by experiencing material and moral losses on their migration routes. Moreover, these dangerous journeys endanger of many immigrants. Therefore, it is necessary to raise awareness about migrant smuggling. The aim of the study is to evaluate awareness of migrant smuggling through social media. The sample of the research is the reactions to the immigrant smuggling news shared on social media. In the news, a person named Ö.K. is caught by security officers. Working in broadcast news agencies in Turkey (DHA, İHA) official social media accounts have been examined. The responses given to the news shared on the Facebook and Twitter accounts of the news agencies were analyzed using thematic content analysis method. According to the results of the research examining 150 posts, social media users described the migrant smuggling act as follows: service to the homeland (29%), job / profession (18%), crime (5%) and assistance (3%). Apart from emoji (7%) and tagging (13%) messages, the migrant smuggler (7%) was insulted (7%), the authorities were called to release him (13%), and his capture by the security units was criticized (5%).According to the analysis results, awareness of migrant smuggling has not developed in social media. On the contrary, the crime of smuggling has been normalized and praised. News sites such as agencies in the sample group have a large number of followers and their posts interact with large audiences (followers and exposure). For this reason, press organizations such as news agencies should examine the comments made on the news they share on social media. It is recommended that they share informative texts that indicate that migrant smuggling is a crime in accordance with ethical publishing. Thus, social awareness can be created through social media users. This awareness can be a step towards prevention of the victimization of irregular migrants.
Yazar isimleri: ['Pınar BAYRAM']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası İnsan Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/uicd/issue/70572/996831
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1979950
