Makale Başlığı: The Effect of the Formation Process of the Art Market in Turkey on the Institutionalization of Art Cinema
Özet: The formation process of the art market in Turkey follows a similar path to the one that happened in Europe. Artists, who proceeded under the patronage of the Sultan and state officials in the Ottoman State, make productions in the art market, which was initiated to be established as an extension of the westernization movements. The art market, which was pioneered initially by Greek, Jewish, and Levantine citizens who lived in the State, reached wider masses in the last period of the Ottoman State along with museums and exhibitions. In this period, after the formation of an art market that was similar to the one in Europe, new artists also had an environment where they could exhibit their works. After the proclamation of the Republic, the state became the main patron of the arts. Various state institutions also allowed artists to survive and produce original works by purchasing works of art with the encouragement of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and his aides. An institutionalization process was experienced after the Second World War in the field of art with newly established museums, art galleries, and places where artists came together. As an extension of this process, art cinema gave its first example in Turkey after the Second World War with Atilla Tokatlı’s film Denize Inen Sokak (1960). The institutionalization process of art, which was initiated with the establishment of cinema associations, societies, and film clubs after the Second World War, also affected the formation and development process of art cinema in Turkey in the 1960s. In the present study, possible cultural consequences of the dynamics that had effects on the formation of art cinema in Turkey will be discussed, and historical conditions and formations will be traced with the art cinema production in the center.
Yazar isimleri: ['Barış SAYDAM']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye Film Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/film/issue/70713/1105916
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2384194
