Makale Başlığı: HOUSING MARKETING AND ELEMENTS AFFECTING THE HOUSING PREFERENCE OF DIYARBAKIR PEOPLE
Özet: Purpose-The aim of this study is to determine the factors affecting the preferences of buyers in terms of housing acquisition in Diyarbakırprovince. In addition, it is to determine how important these factors are in housing preferences. Based on this, in this study, it is expected toprovide guiding and contributing data to all parties of housing marketing in making marketing decisions.Methodology- The online survey method was used in the research. In Diyarbakır, questions were asked according to the conveniencesampling method to people who are over the age of 18 and have the potential to buy a house. Incoming responses were included in thestatistical package program and were subjected to frequency analysis. In the survey, which was organized under the title of factors affectingthe housing preference of the people of Diyarbakır, 34 questions were asked in total, including property characteristics, property appearance,property environment, superstitions and purchase intention. Questionnaires were asked to 500 people. Of these, 481 were deemedappropriate and analyzed. In addition, the arithmetic averages of participant responses are given in general tables.Findings- As a result of the findings, the factors that are effective in the housing preference of the people of Diyarbakır are respectively; Theprice of the house with 73.18%; home security with 70.89%; the residential area where 69.44% of the houses are located; facilities(opportunities) infrastructure with 66.11%; complete status of the house with 62.58% (eg air conditioner kitchen cabinet); The environmentalquality of the house with 61.95%; it was determined that the appearance of the residential area with 61.12% and the proximity of the houseto the education area with 60.71%.Conclusion-One of the most important issues for consumers is the price of the house. This shows that the majority of the participants consistof a price sensitive audience. Other important issues are the safety of the house, the residential area where the house is located, facilities(facilities) infrastructures, the completion of the house, the environmental quality of the house, the appearance of the residential area andthe proximity of the house to the education area. In addition, purchase intention and superstition were seen as ineffective factors inpurchasing a house.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: PressAcademia Procedia
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/pap/issue/71641/1152744
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2571100
