Makale Başlığı: Menâkıb-ı Hâcı Bektâş-ı Velî: Declares the Transition of Hâcı Bektâş-ı Velî to Rûm [06 Mil Yz A 6732-6]
Özet: Hâcı Bektâş-ı Velî is one of the dervishes known as Horasan Saints who lived in the thir-teenth century. After coming to Anatolia due to the Mongol invasion, he settled in Sulucakarahöyük, which is today known as Hacıbektaş, in Nevşehir. In Sulucakarahöyük, he took care of both village affairs and worship and trained many caliphs. He deeply influenced the people around him and was loved by them. He left his mark, especially in the Alevi-Bektaşi circles. He is regarded as the leader of the Janissary Corps and Bektashism. Menâkıb-ı Hâcı Bektâş-ı Velî, one of the works of Sufi Turkish literature that developed in the Islamic religion, is one of the most well-known Bektaşi vilayetnamesi. In this work, which is examined from various perspectives, the arrival of Haji Bektaiş-i Veli in Rum and the miracles he showed here with the permission of Allah are told in the form of stories. This text is registered in the Ankara National Library Manuscripts Collection with the fixture number 06 Mil Yz A 6732-6. The work has 6.5 leaves, 11 lines on each page, and is written in a Nasikh script. The language of the work has the characteristics of the Classical Ottoman Turkish Period, it was written for the common folk and a plain prose style was used. The work is written in very simple, fluent, and understandable Turkish. In this study, besides the transcripted text and translation of the work, literary and linguistic analysis will be made on the work and various indexes of the work (grammatical index, index of inflectional suffixes, index of person and place names, index of Arabic phrases) will be taken. The study will be concluded by examining the vocabulary of the work and presenting the findings
Yazar isimleri: ['Türkan KORKMAZ BULUT']
Yayın Yılı: 19 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Old Turkic Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jots/issue/71273/1142708
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2534029
