Makale Başlığı: Combining metadata and co-citations for recommending related papers
Özet: Identification of relevant documents is performed to keep track of the state-of-the-art methods and relies  on research paper recommender systems. The proposed approaches for these systems can be classified into categories  like content-based, collaborative filtering-based, and bibliographic information-based approaches. The content-based  approaches exploit the full text of articles and provide more promising results than other approaches. However, most  content is not freely available because of subscription requirements. Therefore, the scope of content-based approaches  is limited. In such scenarios, the best possible alternative could be the exploitation of other openly available resources.  Therefore, this research explores the possible use of metadata and bibliographic information to find related articles.  The approach incorporates metadata with co-citations to find and rank related articles against a query paper. The  similarity score of metadata fields is calculated and combined with co-citations. The proposed approach is evaluated on  a newly constructed dataset of 5116 articles. The benchmark ranking against each co-cited document set is established by  applying Jensen--Shannon divergence  JSD  and results are evaluated with the state-of-the-art content-based approach  in terms of normalized discounted cumulative gain  NDCG . The state-of-the-art content-based approach achieved an  NDCG score of 0.86 while the traditional co-citation-based approach scored 0.72. The presented method achieved NDCG  scores of 0.73, 0.77, and 0.78 by incorporating the title, co-citation and title, and abstract, respectively, whereas the  highest NDCG score of 0.77 was achieved by combining co-citations with metadata. However, better results are achieved by incorporating the title and abstract with NDCG score of 0.81. Therefore, it can be concluded that the proposed  approach could be a better alternative in cases where content is unavailable.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Mayıs 2020
Dergi ismi: Turkish Journal of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tbtkelektrik/issue/54388/739712
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1110722
