Makale Başlığı: Natural Geographical Features and Land Use of The Hatip River Basin (Ankara)
Özet: In this study, natural and human environment characteristics that are effective on the land use in the Hatip Stream Basin were evaluated. Hatip Stream is located within the borders of Ankara province and is one of the important river basins of Ankara. The aim of the study is to reveal the effects of natural and human environment characteristics on the land use throughout the basin and to offer solutions for the problems encountered. Throughout the study period, field observations and examinations were made in different years and in different parts of the basin. With the help of Geographical Information Systems, maps suitable for the purpose of the subject were produced, and the land use of the basin over the years was evaluated by using Remote Sensing techniques. While agricultural lands cover the largest area (15000 ha) in the Hatip Stream Basin, settlement areas cover the second largest area (13500 ha). This situation causes wrong land use in the basin and poses a threat to the future. The dense and irregular positioning of the settlement areas put pressure on agricultural and forest areas. It was observed that there is wrong land use throughout the basin, agricultural areas are established in unproductive areas, and forest areas are destroyed. In addition, it was determined that there is a population increase of approximately 100,000 in every five years in the basin. Considering this increase, it is predicted that the effect of population and settlement pressure on the lands will increase further in the coming years. In order to prevent wrong land use in the Hatip Stream Basin, a planning covering all land types in the basin is required. Land and soil loss should be prevented by considering geographical factors in the planning to be made.
Yazar isimleri: ['Seda GÖZTEPE', 'Muhammet BAHADIR', 'Halithan ŞEN']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Mavi Atlas
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gumusmaviatlas/issue/73222/1171169
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2633208
