Makale Başlığı: An Investigation of the Science Lesson Activity Examples in the Village Institute Curriculum in terms of the Traces of the STEM Approach
Özet: In this study, the science course activity examples in the 1943 Village Institutes curriculum were examined in terms of STEM approach. In line it this purpose, the researcher studied on 13 science course activities which are derived from 1943 Village Institute curriculum. The activities are classified according to whether they correspond to the achievements in the 2018 Science course curriculum of the Ministry of National Education. When analyzing the suitability of the activities to the STEM approach, five criteria were taken into consideration. These are “Involving a real-life problem from everyday life”, “The level to which the achievements addressing the interdisciplinary approach”, “Their level of cognitive learning in Revised Bloom Taxonomy”, “The possibility of a product as an outcome at the end of the activity”, “The extent to which they include the 21st century skills”. In the research, the document analysis method, one of the qualitative research methods, was used and the activities were subjected to content analysis. The analysis was carried out by referring to the subcategories of content analysis. As a result of the examination, the conditions of the activities that have and do not have a full equivalent in the 2018 Science course curriculum of the Ministry of National Education were determined according to the STEM approach eligibility criteria. By creating frequency and percentage tables, the compliance of the activities with the STEM approach was elucidated. At the end of the research, the majority of the activities meet all the eligibility criteria for the STEM approach. Accordingly, it is observed that the 1923 curriculum had the traces of STEM approach. This research proposes to include and benefit from the activities in the 1943 Village Institute curriculum while preparing the Science course curriculum.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ömer SAYLAR', 'Arzu IŞILDAK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Individual Differences in Education
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jide/issue/70766/1120752
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2445007
