Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Theology Students' Attitudes Towards Arabic Lesson on Academic Achievement
Özet: Human, as social being, is born with the need to communicate with the other living creatures around him/her, especially other people. Language, the unchanging phenomenon of human history, is one of the most critical communication elements. Individuals and societies have communicated with spoken and written language from the past to the present. People who communicate through language have made progress by transferring each other's cultures, beliefs, and the science they produce. Therefore, knowing a language means communicating with the society that speaks that language and the individuals of that society, taking something from them in a cultural sense and giving something to them. For this reason, language has always been one of the essential elements to be thought about, learned, and taught throughout history.The Arabic language, after English, is the second largest language spoken outside of its own community. The most important reason for this is that the language of the Qur'an, the holy book of Islam, is Arabic, and people of this religion tend to learn Arabic to know and live their religion better. The Arabic language is indispensable for those who are academically interested in Islamic sciences. It is thought that it will not be possible to progress in religious sciences, to understand and interpret the sources related to the subject correctly without knowing Arabic.In Turkey, Arabic is widely taught in Imam Hatip High Schools and Faculties of Theology/Islamic Sciences as well as official and unofficial madrasas. Imam Hatip High Schools aims to provide primary Arabic education for students who want to continue in the relevant field in higher education. In universities, on the other hand, more advanced Arabic education is offered, and students are expected to read, write, speak, and understand this language. Because the classical works that constitute the source of the religious sciences taught at this stage were mostly written in Arabic. In this context, it can be said that knowing the Arabic language well can increase the academic achievement of the students studying at these faculties.Measuring students' attitudes towards a lesson is of great importance in terms of getting more productive results from that lesson on behalf of both the teacher and the student. Because students' negative attitudes towards the lesson may cause them not to give the necessary importance to the lesson and thus to fail in their lessons. In addition, it is estimated that the students' positive attitudes towards the lesson will increase the success rate in that lesson. For this reason, it is thought that the positive or negative attitudes of the Faculty of Theology/Islamic Sciences students towards Arabic may have a positive or negative effect on their academic achievement.This survey research aimed to determine the relationship between the attitudes of the Faculty of Theology/Islamic Sciences students towards the Arabic lesson and their academic achievements. The research sample consisted of a total of 146 students, 96 girls and 50 boys, from the Faculty of Islamic Sciences of Bitlis Eren University in the 2021-2022 academic year. A relational screening model was used in this research. In addition, "Personal Information Form" and "Scale of Attitude Towards Arabic Lesson" were used in the research. The data in the research was analyzed using IBS SPSS. Descriptive statistics were made to determine demographic characteristics. "T-Test for Independent Samples" was used for comparisons with two groups, and "One-Way Analysis of Variance - ANOVA" was used for comparisons with more than two groups, and the "Tukey HSD" multiple comparison test was used to determine the source of the difference. "Pearson Correlation Test" was applied to determine the relationship between the attitudes and academic achievement levels of the participants towards Arabic. The result of the research showed that there was no significant difference was found between the variable of gender, being a preparatory student, the time allocated to the Arabic lesson weekly and the high school graduated from, and the attitude towards the Arabic class. However, in the affective sub-dimension of the grade level variable and scale of attitude towards the Arabic lesson, the mean score of the 1st graders were found to be higher than the mean score of the 3rd and 4th grade students, and a significant difference was found. Also, no significant difference was found between the students' academic achievements and their attitudes towards the Arabic lesson.
Yazar isimleri: ['Halime ÇOBAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Marife Dini Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://marife.org/tr/pub/issue/71001/1103278
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2373577
