Makale Başlığı: Zuhayr b. Abî Sulmâ’s Muallaqa and the Wise Words It Contains
Özet: This study is about the life of Zuhayr b. Abî Sulmâ, one of the leading poets of pre-Islamic period, his muallaqa and the wise words in his poems. In the study, after giving brief information about the poet's life and the literary environment he grew up in,  his muallaqa, which is included with its Turkish translation, has been examined in terms of form and content. In the ongoing part of the study, after giving brief information about the concept of “wisdom”, selections of muallaqa poets who include wise words in their poems were presented. At the end of the study, couplets containing wise words in the muallaqa were evaluated separately. In addition to their literary value, the muallaqas, including the eulogy of Zuhayr, are considered as masterpieces of Classical Arabic poetry in terms of the concise and terse words about the life they contain. It is also possible to find a lot of wise expressions consisting of these concise words based on long life experience, analytical observation, contemplation and general social acceptance in the poet's muallaqa. Among the poems of Zuhayr, who has poems on almost every subject of ancient Arabic poetry, eulogy-themed odes have a greater place. As a matter of fact, the most important ode of the poet, his muallaqa, is one of them, and is about the praise of Harim b. Sinân and al-Hâris b. ‘Avf, who ended a long-lasting war between the tribes of 'Abs and Zübyân. The sixty-two couplet ode that Zuhayr built in accordance with the classical Arabic poetry tradition consists of four main parts. The first part of the poem, which consists of the first fifteen couplets, begins with the commemoration of the ruins of the land where the beloved once lived, with longing and nostalgia. In this section, also called "nasîb", the poet commemorates the ruins of his lover and the natural environment in which they are located, in an emotional language, accompanied by detailed descriptions showing his immense power of observation and superior expressiveness. The poet, in the second part of his ode with nine couplets, has given his sincere praises to Harim b. Sinân and al-Hâris b. ‘Avf, who played an active role in ending the war mentioned above. This section, which forms the main backbone of the ode, stands out with the historical information it contains, as well as offering important clues about the poet's belief in hanîfism with the couplets containing oaths and prayers.In the third part of the ode, which consists of twenty couplets, the poet gives effective warnings to the parties of the mentioned war with his wise couplets bearing traces of his long life experience and wise personality, and tries to persuade them to peace through wisdom and common sense. In this context, the poet expresses some of the moral and theological principles of the hanîfism belief in the form of wisdom and uses them as a tool to persuade his interlocutors.Among the poets of muallaqa, Zuhayr, who gave the most space to couplets containing wisdom in his muallaqa and was therefore referred to as the “sage of poets” or the “adjudicator of the poets”, shaped the last part of his muallaqa with the wise couplets dealing with universal moral values and human virtues. These wise words were adopted and passed down from generation to generation by reflecting the common mind of the society, being the interpreters of the worlds of emotions of the listeners and expressing experienced truths in a terse way and in a general sense. It is hoped that this study, which is shaped within the framework of the wise words in Zuhayr’s muallaqa, will generally arouse interest in the poetry of pre-Islamic period and other muallaqa poems in particular.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yaşar Seracettin BAYTAR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: İlahiyat Akademi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ilak/issue/70982/1103503
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2374416
