Makale Başlığı: The Role of Local Administrations in the Resolution of Migration Problems and Integration of Immigrants
Özet: AbstractAs a result of his creation, human beings have always acted in the direction of achieving the best. The population mobility that has occurred as a result of this action of people has exceeded the borders over time and reached an international dimension as well as caused differentiation within the social structure. Especially in today's world, as a result of the transportation opportunities developed compared to the past and the factors such as poverty, natural disasters and wars in certain regions, thousands of people leave their own countries and migrate to other countries every year. However, while the resulting migration mobility leads to the formation of differences in the target country, the differences between migrants and local people are often not accepted by local people. This problem of non-acceptance has made migration management mandatory. Along with this obligation, it has brought the need for managers to produce policies in this field and to take legal and institutional measures. In the legal regulations that emerged as a result of the requirements, it was seen that local governments, which are the mirrors of the local, were ignored in terms of the integration of immigrants. At this point, the main purpose of the study is to identify the problems faced by local administrations in managing the process for the integration of migrants and to make policy recommendations to fill the gap that arises. Within the scope of the study, the necessity of the role of local administrations in ensuring the integration between local people and migrants as a result of population mobility was emphasized. between the local people and immigrants, which occurs as a result of population mobility, is emphasized.
Yazar isimleri: ['Rahime ÇERÇİ']
Yayın Yılı: 4 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Middle East Journal of Refugee Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mejrs/issue/72269/1097656
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2349570
