Makale Başlığı: INVESTIGATION OF BRANDS’ INSTAGRAM CONTENT: 5 EXAMPLES OF BRANDS OFFERING ONLINE FOOD SERVICES IN TURKEY
Özet: Developments in information and communication technologies have brought about a transformation in business and communication processes. The widespread use of internet technology and the increasing number of users of social media applications, which emerged as a result of web 2.0 technology, required businesses to take part in these channels. While digital transformation brings about the transformation of many vital practices related to social life, economic and commercial activities have also moved to this area. The transformation in shopping practices has led brands to social media marketing. Brands have the opportunity to communicate with their customers directly, quickly, effectively and economically through social media applications. The digital transformation has brought concepts such as interactive marketing, online marketing, internet marketing, e-marketing to the agenda. This situation paved the way for the creation of e-commerce sites where all processes in traditional commercial activities are transferred to the digital environment. In this context, the official Instagram accounts of five brands operating in Turkey and offering online food service (YemekSepeti, Getir Yemek, Trendyol Yemek, Tıkla Gelsin, Migros Perakende) were analyzed using the content analysis method. The aim of this study is to examine the content features of the Instagram shares of the brands that constitute the sample of the study. As a result of the study, it has been concluded that the type of sharing that brands share the most is in the category of "video", they share product / service-oriented shares, they give importance to the use of logos and icons, but they do not prefer to use hashg in their shares. In addition, it has been seen that the message appeals that brands use most in their Instagram posts are in the categories of information, savings and economy.
Yazar isimleri: ['Arzu Kalafat ÇAT']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Asya Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asya/issue/72908/1146117
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2547784
