Makale Başlığı: EFFECTS OF IMMOBILIZATION AND WHOLE-BODY VIBRATION ON RAT SERUM TYPE I COLLAGEN TURNOVER
Özet: Objectives:Despite documentation of the detrimental effects of immobilization on the musculoskeletal system, immobilization is still a frequently applied treatment method for several sports injuries. This study was designed to investigate the effects of short-term, high-magnitude whole-body vibration (WBV) on serum type I collagen turnover in immobilized rats.   Materials and Methods:Thirty Wistar albino rats were randomly divided into the following 5 groups: immobilization(IS), immobilization + remobilization(IR), immobilization + WBV(IV), control(C), and WBV control(CV). Immobilization was achieved by casting from the crista iliaca anterior superior to the lower part of the foot for 2 weeks. The applied WBV protocol involved a frequency of 45 Hz and amplitude of 3 mm for 7 days starting a day after the end of the immobilization period. Serum type I collagen turnover markers were measured by using ELISA kits.  Results:Serum NH2-terminal propeptide of type I collagen (PINP) levels were significantly lower in the immobilization groups (p < 0.02) compared with the control groups. Although WBV improved PINP levels in the control groups, there were no differences in PINP levels among the immobilization groups. Similarly, serum COOH-terminal telopeptide of type I collagen (CTX) levels were higher in the WBV controls than their own controls (p<0,05). Immobilization led to deterioration of tendon tissue, as observed by histopathological analysis with a transmission electron microscope.   Conclusion:Although 1 week of WBV had a positive effect on type I collagen turnover in controls, it is not an efficient method for repairing tissue damage in the early stage following immobilization. DOI: 10.3944/AOTT.2016.15.0353This abstract belongs to the un-edited version of the article and is only for informative purposes. Published version may differ from the current version.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gurhan Donmez', 'Mahmut Doral', 'Mahmut Doral', 'Mustafa Sargon', 'Mustafa Sargon', 'Hasan Bilgili', 'Hasan Bilgili', 'Haydar Demirel', 'Haydar Demirel']
Yayın Yılı: 3 Haziran 2016
Dergi ismi: Acta Orthopaedica et Traumatologica Turcica
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aott/issue/18258/192612
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/user/project/new
