Makale Başlığı: Syrians In Marwanid Period
Özet: The Marwanids is one of the Muslim Dynasties who ruled in Upper Mesopotamia between 983-1085 A.D. In this period, the demography of the region represented a formidable heterogeneity consisting of numerous ethnic and religious groups including Syrians, Armenians, Greeks, Arabs, Jews, Kurds and Georgians of different confessional and secterian teachings. The Marwanids facilitated the practice of not only their own religion, but also they allowed the practicing of other religions within their constituency with much tolerance and respect. Not only did they not interfere in religious freedom, but they also turned their country into a shelter for confessional groups which confronted religious persecution in the neighbouring states. A significant example is that of the Jacobites who settled and established a patriarchate in the Marwanid city of Amid after escaping from the Byzantian cruelty and opression. The Marwanids were different from their contemporary Muslim states in that they adopted a principle of meritocracy in matters of government. This allowed the inclusion of non-muslims in the state and government apparatus. For instance, there had been non-Muslim vizier, secretaries, army commanders, trust officers and physicians in the Marwanid palace. A great attention was regarded on freedom of belief of Non-Muslims, building their own praying places and worshipping without having any restrain. During that period any negative attitude to Non-Musim citizens by Marwanids was not seen. Different christian groups, suffocated from restrains of states officially acknowledged Christianity like Byzantium, raided to Marwanid Dynasty for the peaceful situation. Moving of Syrian Patriarchy to Diyarbakır was one of the significant events of this era.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yusuf BALUKEN']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Bingöl Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/buifd/issue/70502/1118555
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2435989
