Makale Başlığı: The Genesis of Languages Between Qāḍī ‘Abd al-Jabbār and Modern Linguistics
Özet: The issue of the emergence of languages in Islamic thought occupied a large part of study and discussion, and the largest share in these discussions was for the legal theoreticians and scholars of theology. Muslims came up with two theories about the emergence of languages. The first theory asserts that language is a God-given or a God-inspired gift (tawqīfī) that descended on mankind who were taught the names of things. This theory is very old and had similarly been advocated by Greek philosophers. The second theory was formulated by the Mu’tazilites who drew on rational logic, interpreted scriptural references accordingly, and stated that language arose from the agreement of individuals in society (muwāḍa‘a). There have also been attempts of reconciling these two theories and according to one of which it was stated God has endowed man with mechanisms that enabled him with the ability to establish linguistic conventions and terminologies (al-qudra ‘alā al-iṣṭilāḥ). But, this reconcilitation attempt adds, the first and the initial language was the result of God’s teaching (tawqīfī) and what came after it was the result of agreeing by individuals within a given society. Qāḍī ‘Abd al-Jabbār advocates a different theory and asserts from the outset that the first language must be borne out of muwāḍa‘a, for, according to him, muwāḍa‘a temporally precedes tawqīf. His argument proceedes from the reasoning that in order for God to address the mankind, the latter must already have the faculty of speech/language so that they can receive God’s address. Qaḍī’s formulation is about the first language and, due to lack of conclusive evidence, he seems undecided about the languages that came into being later; they can either be tawqīfī or they can similarly be the outcome of muwāḍa‘a. Qāḍī then continues to talk about the prerequisites for the muwāḍa‘a by virtue of which God directed His speech towards mankind, and stipulates that the first prerequisite is the determination of meaning. There cannot be a given name for a given named without intending and establishing the meaning of the given name. Modern studies have also been examining the development and beginning of languages and there have been attempts of putting forth other theories. Towards the end of the 18th century, scholars have come up with the innateness theory (al-naẓariyya al-fiṭriyya) according to which human beings are endowed with a special instinctual faculty with which they can articulate meanings in speech. Another one of the most famous of these theories is the onomatopoeic or mimetic theory which asserts that the first speech developed out of imitating sounds that human beings heard in their natural environment and invented nouns for the sources and roots of these sounds. The following study comprises of a foreword that studies the significance of the topic and the questions that revolve around it. We then present a brief biographical account of Qāḍī ‘Abd al-Jabbār, follow it with a section that presents the forerunning theories about the beginning and the development of languages according to Muslim and Western scholars along with their supporting arguments. We finalize with Qāḍī’s views and arguments and conclude our study with our findings and suggestions.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hüseyin ELMHEMIT']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: ATEBE
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/atebe/issue/71028/1094766
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2338085
