Makale Başlığı: An Advice Book Written in The 18th Century: The Nesâih-i Cündiyye of Kefevizâde Mehmed Âdil
Özet: One of the text types of classical Turkish literature is advice book. There are many advice books, which are among the famous books of Turkish literature. In addition to these famous books, there are also advice books that have not yet come to light in the manuscript libraries. Recently, many examples of advice book have been identified by researchers and shared with the scientific community. Kefevîzâde Mehmed Âdil Efendi's Nesâih-i Cündiyye is such a work. Nesâih-i Cündiyye is located in the majmua registered at Ankara National Library number 06 Hk 3752. Its writing was completed on the last day of Safar in 1208 (6 October 1793). It falls under the military advice book type. It contains the advice that a member of the army should follow for the safety, security and order of the people. The author used verses, hadiths, stories, poems and kalamikibars to embody his advice and embellish the narrative. Among the kalamikibars, he mostly included Hz. Ali's aphorisms. He translated Arabic and Persian quotations into Turkish as poetry. To the soldiers he gave advice to keep secrets, to love state administrators, to be generous, to have piety, to know his entourage, to employ knowledgeable and intelligent advisors, and to be patient. He also reported the prayers that should be read during the war. The language of Nesâih-i Cündiyya is heavy and its style is ornate. The fact that the language existence is mainly composed of Arabic and Persian words has made the language heavy. Arabic, Persian and Turkish verse and prose quotations, succinct and long sentences made his style grandiose. Nesâih-i Cündiyye provides important data for 18th century Ottoman Turkish language studies as it contains a large number of Turkish archaic words and suffixes. In this article, the results of the form and content analysis of Kefevîzâde Mehmed Âdil's Nesâih-i Cündiyye are given, and the translated text of Nesâih-i Cündiyye is shared with the scientific community.
Yazar isimleri: ['Suat DONUK']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Littera Turca Journal of Turkish Language and Literature
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/littera/issue/73305/1169418
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2625984
