Makale Başlığı: EVALUATING LEARNING OUTCOMES AND STUDENT MOTIVATION WITHIN THE SCOPE OF INTERIOR AND FURNITURE HISTORY II AND PERPECTIVE COURSES IN DISTANCE EDUCATION PROCESS: CASE OF ESTU INTERIOR DESIGN DEPARTMENT
Özet: The COVID-19 pandemic, which affects public health, has led to the restriction of social life. Theeducation that started face-to-face continued with the emergency distance education model, which meansthat the current education is carried out in online platforms due to the precautions taken. The internet-baseddistance education model was also adopted in interior architecture education, and the theoretical and practicebasedcourses in the curriculum continued to be conducted on the internet. In this process, it is importantfor the learners to have motivation towards the courses carried out in terms of the learning outcomes of thecourses. In the study, the courses that started with face-to-face education in the 2019-2020 Spring Term butwere carried out with the principles of distance education within the scope of Emergency Distance Educationdue to the global epidemic were discussed. It is aimed to examine the Interior and Furniture History II coursesin theoretical, and Perspective courses in practice, on the basis of learning outcomes and motivation levels.Both courses were conducted with the help of online platforms. Within the scope of the theoretical course,learners are encouraged to do research. A discussion environment was created based on the data obtained.In the practice-based course, it is aimed to create a learning environment by thorough experience. Learningprocesses were supported by sharing lectures, videos, leaflets and application drawings as different learningtools. The research was designed with mixed method using qualitative and quantitative data collection tools.The quantitative data collected within the scope of the study with the explanatory design were supported byqualitative data. In line with the data obtained, it has been revealed that the teaching methods applied duringthe pandemic process give positive results in theoretical and practice-based courses.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 22 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Sanat ve Tasarım Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sanattasarim/issue/70459/1133813
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2499154
