Makale Başlığı: Identity and Belonging in the Context of “Muslim Brotherhood”: The Case of System Refugees
Özet: The notion of identity gained even more important position in people’s lives with its new patterns as a result of modernism. In an era in which globalisation increases by leaps and bounds, the notions of identity and belonging causes radical changes in the basic dynamics of the society. Identity allows individuals to position themselves in the social structure and determines their social roles. Therefore, it has become an irreplaceable notion for nation states. Identity can briefly be defined as a persons way of symbolising the perceptions of himself/herself. There are many fundamental factors related to belonging and identity acquiring dimentions. Initially migration and war can be counted as two of these factors. Especially migration that happens due to a war destroys the fundamental dynamics of the society and causes to form a new notion of identity and belonging. The aim of this study is to detect the alteration of understanding identity and belonging in Syrian immigrants as a result of migration and to determine how do they form these new identities and belongings after this alteration. The study has been conducted with Syrian immigrants that migrated to Turkey. Face to face in-depth interview technique and oral history method have been used in the study. Visual and audio recordings have been taken in the interviews by the approval of the participants. The participants are chosen  within Syrian immigrants that migrated to Turkey and over eighteen years old by snowball sampling without any additional criteria. The interviews have been conducted with Turkish speakers first, due to Turkish knowledge ratio being low within Syrian immigrants. The interviews with non-Turkish speakers have been conducted with the help and translation of Turkish speakers. Even though Syrian refugees are distributed all over Turkey, the city of Ankara and its borders has been determined as the geographical borders of the study. The answers of the study will be seeked through the transcriptions of visual and audio recordings of the interviews by paradigm. We have found in the study that the fear of security due to by being a minority caused the Syrian refugees to form new communities. The identity became more of a defence tool against the majority than a way to determine status. Therefore, while the identity is an irreplaceable ideology for individuals in social norms, for Syrian refugees it has transformed to a much more functional aspect.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zeynel KARACAGİL']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Turizm Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tucade/issue/71597/1149362
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2559737
