Makale Başlığı: Intellectuals as the “Horse Fly” of society
Özet: Changes in social dynamics based on progress and development in knowledge, culture and technology have led to some class differentiations and divisions in society. Intellectuals, who have knowledge in many social, economic, historical, and cultural areas, take place in society as the providers of development and innovation, who act with their knowledge, develop a perspective, and direct the society, unlike the majority. Formerly known as philosophers, who are also called “Gadflies” and who shape the society with their shocking and stimulating information and discourses, continue their duties as intellectuals today. Intellectual is a polysemic concept, the content of which varies according to societies, cultures, and individuals. Thus, it is difficult to make a single general definition of the intellectual. However, some basic qualities common to different definitions of intellectual can still be identified. The main purpose of this study is to determine the basic common qualities that the intellectual should have, based on different definitions. The main argument defended in the study is that there are some common qualities in different intellectual definitions, such as being free and pursuing the truth with knowledge. The most prominent among them is that the intellectual is the “Gadfly” of society with its shocking and stimulating effect. What is meant here with the metaphor of “horse fly”; his critical and courageous attitudes are not indifferent to the problems of the society, he opposes injustice, and offers solutions by pointing out the problems in the society. In this context, the intellectual who develops an inner view of society and himself, can look critically, and has a rational view towards world problems with a realistic point of view is not the one who has the supreme spirit attributed to holiness, but the one who has a high spirit that expresses the rational view. In all these aspects, he is an intellectual, aware of his shortcomings, thinking about them, and thus constantly rebuilding himself.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zöhre YÜCEKAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: NOSYON: Uluslararası Toplum ve Kültür Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/nosyon/issue/71049/1109911
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2400997
