Makale Başlığı: A New Perspective in the Sociology of Health: The Health Capital
Özet: This article focuses on health, especially the inequality experienced in health, which have been widening in recent years, with the conceptual tools developed by the French sociologist Pierre Bourdieu. The article asks if it is possible to conceptualize health as a unique form of capital, just like economic capital or cultural capital? First, the article focuses on the main lines of the sociology of health and clarifies how health is examined in the line from Durkheim to Foucault. It then sheds light on the three main research areas that form the backbone of the sociology of health, namely the social roots of health, the unbridled commodification process in health, and the relationship between health and power. Thirdly, the contribution of the relational sociology which is developed by Pierre Bourdieu to the literature of the sociology of health is discussed in the article. Finally, it clarifies the possibilities that the concept of capital, one of the central concepts of relational sociology, can offer in order to examine health as a unique form of power. Health capital is the transformed form of economic capital and cultural capital. It refers to the body's capacity to control its biological existence, the privilege of taking precautionary measures against possible risks, and the level and speed of access to qualified treatment and expert opinion when necessary. Such an approach enables sociologists to observe or measure empirically the inequality created through the distribution of health in the form of examination, surgery, treatment, and advice. It is also an invitation for a rethinking of health as a unique form of power, both independent of economic power and outside of governmentality.
Yazar isimleri: ['Aksu AKÇAOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Mersin Üniversitesi Tıp Fakültesi Lokman Hekim Tıp Tarihi ve Folklorik Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mutftd/issue/72580/1108050
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2392945
