Makale Başlığı: Rasim Özdenören in Turkish Storytelling
Özet: Rasim Özdenören, who is remembered as "The Man Who Grows Roses", is one of the significant names of the new Turkish literature that developed in the Republican era. His stories, long stories and essays are remarkable. Saliha Tunç, in her book named Rasim Özdenören in Turkish Storytelling, gives a detailed analysis of the stories of the writer who has a prominent place in our literature. This study, which was published by Çizgi Bookstore in 2022, consists of five chapters following the Preface and Introduction, and the Conclusion and Bibliography. The study ends with the "Conclusion" part. In this part, Tunç gathered what he tried to explain throughout the work and reached a general conclusion. In conclusion part, she highlights Özdenören's place and importance in our literature.It is a very comprehensive study of Rasim Özdenören's storytelling. Due to the extensive bibliography, Tunç has produced remarkable work. It is a very intensive study in terms of understanding Özdenören's world of thought, philosophy of life and the thoughts that dominate his works. It is a resource that will benefit researchers who are curious about the storytelling aspect of Rasim Özdenören.In the introduction, the researcher traces the origin of the narrative and writes down the historical development of storytelling in detail by referring to myths, tales, epics, folk tales and masnavi. The introductory part, which includes many sub-titles, ends by referring to Turkish storytelling after 1980 when the story peaked in its development. This part serves as a guide for the following chapters of the work. By presenting the historical development of the story, it prepares the reader for Özdenören's story and its place in the story genre.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sumru ÖNAL']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Art Time
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/at/issue/72788/1163743
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2603333
