Makale Başlığı: THE PERCEPTION OF THE TURKISH IN MONGOLIA’S HISTORY TEXTBOOKS
Özet: History textbooks of countries around the world are written in line with the national history line. One of the most important objectives of this understanding is to instill national culture and history in students. In the aftermath of the dissolution of the Soviet Union, especially in Mongolia, revolutionary breakthroughs were made in educational life. New policies targeted in education have been one of the primary goals of Mongols. In this research, the perception of the Turkish in the history textbooks taught in Mongolia was examined. Document review method was used in our study where we examined secondary education 6th, 7th and 8th grade history textbooks and high school 9th, 10th, 11th grade history textbooks. Mongolia’s history textbooks contain detailed information about the pre-Islamic Turkish history. At the same time, various images and maps related to this period were used in textbooks. There is little information about the Ottoman Empire compared to other subjects. While briefly mentioning the establishment and rise of the Ottoman Empire, there is detailed information about the Conquest of Istanbul. However, we see that the subject of conquest is processed through the eyes of Western historians. History textbooks are looked at from a detailed point of view and the general structure of the subject distribution is revealed. Studies in this field in Turkey were examined and an example was created. In addition to textbooks, we also used works written on Mongolia's history education and educational problems in our study. As a result of our research, the perception of the Turkish in the history textbooks taught in Mongolia was revealed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Samet KALYONCU']
Yayın Yılı: 17 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Tarihi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/turktarars/issue/70350/1076785
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2266269
