Makale Başlığı: A New Type Of Graphene Based Bone Scaffold In Tissue Engineering
Özet: The aim of bioimplant technology is to repair, repair or preserve damaged tissues and organs. Every year, many people want to fix/repair bones in skeletal defects caused by accidents or various diseases. For this reason, many different types of biomaterials have been used to create scaffolds on which new bone growth can take place. Hydroxyapatite, apatite-wollostonite, and carbon-based biomaterials have been used for this purpose. Scaffolds printed with carbon nanomaterials are a widely used group of biomaterials because of their commercial availability, mechanical stability, and biocompatibility.Carbon-based scaffolds demonstrate osteogenic differentiation, bone tissue regeneration, and efficient cell proliferation. Bone scaffolds are considered to be the basic building blocks for bone growth, regeneration, repair, differentiation, and adhesion in bone tissue cells in tissue engineering. Many carbon nanomaterials are available that act as skeletons. Carbon nanotubes, graphene, and fullerene are the main carbon-based materials that can be used as skeletons. Graphene and its derivatives are a 2D carbon-based material with remarkable physical, chemical, and biological properties. Graphene is of interest to the scientific community because of its excellent electrical conductivity, biocompatibility, surface area, and thermal properties. Graphene sheets have high mechanical strength and large specific surface area. In addition, it has been reported in the literature that graphene enhances stem cell differentiation and biomaterial properties. The conducted study examined the biocompatibility properties of graphene, current studies on the use of graphene as a biomaterial, and biosafety discussions for the clinical application of carbon-based materials. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Mine KIRKBINAR', 'Erhan İBRAHİMOĞLU', 'Fatih ÇALIŞKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Düzce Üniversitesi Bilim ve Teknoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dubited/issue/73115/1079780
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2277704
