Makale Başlığı: Bottle Culture Technology in Mushroom Cultivation and Studies in Türkiye
Özet: Agaricus bisporus (bottom mushroom) constitutes an important part of mushroom cultivation in Türkiye. Recently, there has been increasing interest in the cultivation of exotic and medicinal mushrooms such as oyster mushroom (Pleurotus spp.), Shiitake (Lentinula edodes) and Reishi (Ganoderma lucidum). Plastic bag system is widely used in the cultivation of exotic and medicinal mushrooms in Türkiye. Bottle culture is a cultivation technique in bottles made of autoclave heat resistant, polypropylene-like materials. The substrate used in mushroom cultivation is filled into these bottles and sterilized. The formation of the fruit body is provided in these bottles after the inoculating of spawn. Bottle culture cultivation in Türkiye is not carried out by the private sector. However, in Far East Countries such as China, Japan and South Korea, bottle cultivation is widely practiced. Recently, bottle cultivation has started in some European Union countries and the USA too. Many mushroom species such as Pleurotus species (Pleurotus eryngii, Pleurotus ostreatus), Hypsizygus tessulatus, Reishi (Ganoderma lucidum), Maitake (Grifolia frondosa), Enoki (Flammulina velutipes) and Lion’s mane (Hericium erinaceus) can be cultivated in this system. Bottle culture is mechanized system and requires less labor. A faster mycelia development may be obtained in the substrate since it allows the use of liquid mycelium. Mechanized systems are also used for cleaning and washing bottles. Bottle culture technology was transferred to Türkiye via the cooperation agreement with Gyeongsangbuk-Do Agricultural Research and Extension services in South Korea. We think that with the common use of bottle culture, the industrial production of exotic and medicinal mushrooms will develop very quickly in Türkiye.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa Kemal SOYLU']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Bahçe
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bahce/issue/73329/1206962
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2781737
