Makale Başlığı: Prejudicial Question in Administrative Justice Law
Özet: As a general principle, the court, which is hearing a dispute will resolve all the issues related to the dispute itself, and under the principle of ex officio investigation, will reach a decision by resolving all the problems related to the dispute. However, a “prejudicial question” is an exception to this. Prejudicial question is regulated by Article 165 of the Code of Civil Procedure (CCP)—Act No. 6100 dated 12.01.2011—but is not mentioned in the Procedure of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA)—Act No. 2577 dated 06.01.1982. Article 31 of the PAJA specifies the referenced rules for the CCP; there is no mention of prejudicial question. In our study, the meaning of the referral to the CCP in situations where there is no provision in the PAJA will be examined, and the concept of prejudicial question will be explained. The term “prejudicial question” may appear in three different contexts in administrative justice law. First is the situation, in which an issue falling within the scope of administrative justice law needs to be resolved in order for a dispute to be resolved in other branches of the judiciary. In the second situation, in a dispute that is being heard by administrative courts, it is necessary to resolve an issue that falls under the jurisdiction of another competent court in the administrative jurisdiction. In the last context, while the main dispute is pending in the administrative jurisdiction, an issue in the dispute arises that needs to be resolved by other jurisdictions. Considering the scope of our study, the issue of the prejudicial question will be examined only in cases where the main dispute is considered in an administrative jurisdiction. Thus, only the second and third of the three situations listed will be addressed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa AHİOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: İdare Hukuku ve İlimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iuihid/issue/68180/1145585
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2545626
