Makale Başlığı: The Rise and Fall of Homegrown Concepts in Global IR: The Anatomy of ‘Strategic Depth’ in Turkish IR
Özet: Asymmetry of knowledge production in global international relations manifestsitself in a variety of forms. Concept cultivation is a foundational form thatconditions the epistemic hierarchies prevalent in scholarly encounters,exchanges, and productions. The core represents the seemingly natural ecologyof concept cultivation, while the periphery appropriates the cultivated concepts,relinquishing any claim of authenticity and indigeneity in the process. Nonetheless,there have been cases of intellectual undertakings in the periphery to conceive,formulate, and articulate conceptual frames of knowledge production. This paper,first, discusses the fluctuating fortunes of homegrown concepts in the peripheralepistemic ecologies. Second, it introduces the concept of ‘strategic depth’ asarticulated by the Turkish scholar Ahmet Davutoğlu and reviews its significancefor the formulation and implementation of recent Turkish foreign policy. Third,it examines the causes of its recognition and acclaim in the local and global IRcommunities subsequent to its inception. The paper contends that there have beenthree fundamental sets of causes for the initial ascendancy of the concept. Theseare categorized as contemplative causes, implementative causes, and evaluativecauses. Fourth, it traces the sources of its fall from scholarly grace. The paperfurther asserts that the three fundamental sets of causes were also operational inthe eventual conceptual insolvency of strategic depth. The paper concludes byaddressing remedial measures to vivify concept cultivation in the periphery andto conserve the cultivated concepts.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: All Azimuth: A Journal of Foreign Policy and Peace
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/allazimuth/issue/71491/1150360
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2563359
