Makale Başlığı: Erosion Risk Analysis in Çıldır Lake Basin (Türkiye)
Özet: Lake Çıldır Basin, the subject of this study, is located in the Erzurum - Kars section of the Eastern Anatolia Region in the northeast of Turkey. This study aimed to determine the erosion risk and its distribution in the Çıldır Lake Basin along with total annual soil loss. This study is significant since it focuses on the effects of erosion on Lake Çıldır and since similar studies do not exist in the research area at the basin scale. Regulated Universal Soil Loss Equation (RUSLE), which is a frequently used method in erosion studies today, was preferred in the study to determine the erosion risk in the field. In the study, 1/25,000 scaled topography sheets were used as base data. The land use and precipitation data of the field and the soil samples taken from different points of the basin constituted the other data sets utilized in the study. The generated maps and the analyses made within the scope of the study helped classify the erosion risk classes of the field and the amount of total annual soil loss. Six different erosion risk classes were identified based on the analysis results. It was found that a large part of the area (82.75%) remained within the “very low” and “low” erosion risk classes. The remaining part of the field fell within the “medium” and “very high” erosion risk classes. The total annual soil loss in the basin was calculated to be 430.140 tons. According to the results obtained from the study, the erosion risk in the field is not very high. However, the erosion risk may increase if the necessary precautions are not taken. The possible sediment transportation to Lake Çıldır as a result of erosion will cause the lake area to shrink; fishing, one of the important livelihoods in the study area will be adversely affected by this situation and the people of the region will experience economic losses.
Yazar isimleri: ['Dilek AYKIR', 'Murat FIÇICI']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Jeomorfolojik Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jader/issue/71059/1144699
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2541772
