Makale Başlığı: The Condition of Religion in Modern, Post-modern, Global Transformation Processes: Critical Contribution to Theories of Religion
Özet: The focus of the studies on the religion phenomenon in the social sciences literature has been on the fundamental transformation of traditional social institutions with modernization. The dominant approach in 19th and 20th century social sciences is that there is a tension relationship between religion and modernization. Religion, like other social institutions, as a source of the search for existential meaning and security, has gained new forms in the face of social change. The main weakness of some approaches that focus on the phenomenon of social change by focusing on the phenomenon of religion as a unit of analysis is that they focuses on images, not social patterns. It is not necessary to consider the change of representations. But it is essential to consider the transformation of religion / sacred in the recent intersections of the history of societies. This choice will allow us to draw a theoretical framework on the structural properties of social change.The aim of this paper is to provide the basis for new theoretical approaches by outlining the transformations of the phenomenon of religion during the periods of fundamental social change. In the first part of the paper, the reactions of religion / sacred in the face of the effects of modernization as a radical cultural change, in the second part of the paper, the effects of post-modernism and in the third part of the effects of globalization will be discussed. In the last section, the possibilities and problems of conceptualizations that try to explain the change of religion / sacred will be discussed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bahattin CİZRELİ', 'Cevat ÖZYURT']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Külliye
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aybukulliye/issue/72859/1038857
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2141305
