Makale Başlığı: FINANCIAL RATIOS BASED ON CASH FLOW STATEMENT AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS WITH PROMETHEE METHOD: AN APPLICATION IN BIST IT SECTOR
Özet: The financial performance of a business is important to all stakeholders related to the business, especially investors and lenders. In particular, proportional analyses that measure cash generation power are often used to assess business performance. Because the cash flow statement is the only table that is not regulated on an accrual basis, it is the one that shows cash inflows and outflows the most clearly. In the cash flow statement, cash flows realized over a period are classified as operating, financing and investment activities. Therefore, it can be seen from which activities the cash created in the enterprise is provided and where it is used. In this context, the liquidity structure of enterprises and whether cash assets are used efficiently can be measured by cash flow ratios. In this study, the financial performance of companies whose shares are traded in Borsa Istanbul (BIST) and operating in the IT sector were analyzed by calculating cash flow rates. These rates were obtained by using the balance sheet, income statement and cash flow statements of the enterprises for the years 2017-2020 and were analyzed by PROMETHEE method, one of the multi-criteria decision making methods. The weight of the cash flow ratios used as performance criteria in the evaluation was determined by the improved Entropy method. For partial and complete performance rankings, the Visual PROMETHEE package program is used. As a result of the analysis, the performance of enterprises was ranked according to negative and positive superiority values.
Yazar isimleri: ['Şakir SAKARYA', 'Çiğdem ERAYMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Aksaray Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://aseddergi.aksaray.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/71102/1016352
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2053002
