Makale Başlığı: EXPERIMENTAL STUDIES ON DIFFERENT TEXTILE SURFACES WITH 3D PRINTING TECHNOLOGY AND APPLICATION OFFERS
Özet: Textile design has changed dimension with the groundbreaking technological developments of the 21st century on the other hand artistic and experimental studies multiplied and spread over a wide area. A revolutionary development in the current century is 3D printing (3D printing) technologies. Sculptural clothing jerseys, shoes, bags, etc., made in the field of fashion and textile design as the output of 3D printers examples of products are abundant. However, in terms of filaments that can be used in clothing, the low tensile strength is a feature that has only recently been overcome.This research go about the results of that made experimental studies by scrutinizing the relationship of 3D printing with textile surfaces and textile prints. It’s aimed to reveal the methods that can be alternative to each other in the field of textile and new surface designs that can be formed by the synthesis of these techniques with this study.This study was carried out with the quantitative research method. 2.8 mm PLA filament was used in the Ultimaker2+ 3D printer, which prints with FDM technology. Thus prints were made on textiles with different surfaces or fiber contents, which are frequently used in textile and fashion production. Observations were made in order to test the adhesion strength of PLA filament on surfaces and to reveal its suitability for textile production. According to this; Among the textiles produced with natural fibers it was observed that the strongest adhesion was achieved on 100% wool felt which is a non-woven surface, on the textiles with mixed fiber content on 60% cotton 40% polyester towels. Also among the fabrics produced with synthetic fibers the strongest adhesion was observed on velvet and plush fabric with pile structure.3D technology which has a place in many sectors such as the fashion and clothing industry  creates a new area that designers should know and work  since the design is expected to be innovative. It is expecting that this study will be illuminating in the development of methods that can be an alternative to artistic and industrial textile printing and also accessories by applying 3D printing.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hale AVCI YILMAZ', 'Kezban SÖNMEZ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Akdeniz Sanat
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/akdenizsanat/issue/71562/1120886
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2445463
