Makale Başlığı: The Demand Insha in Hâtim et-Tâî’s Poems
Özet: Insha, which is one of the two main brances of Arabic rhetoric is divided into two parts: demanding and non-demanding. Demanding ınsha is divided into parts such as order, prohibition, rhetorical question, solicitation and request. Each of these parts is used in its original meaning as well as for some rhetorical purposes. Demanding ınsha has been dealt with theoretically by those who are interested in the Arabic language, or a limited number of examples have been sufficed until now. Therefore, there are few demanding ınsha studies in which poetry is an application area. The fact that the poems of Hâtim et-Tâî (d. 578?), one of the famous poets of the Age of Ignorance, have not been evaluated in terms of demanding ınsha until now has prompted us to  do such a study. In this research, the poems of Hâtim et-Tâî were examined in terms of demanding ınsha and an attempt was made to present an applied example of demanding ınsha. In the content of Hatim al-Tâî, it has been determined that he uses this style with great mastery in his poems, which consist of virtues such as belief in Allah, generosity, courage, forgiveness, chastity, honesty, loyalty, humility, protecting one's honor, releasing the prisoner, feeding the hungry, dressing the naked, serving the guest, feeding food, greeting everyone and not rejecting any request. As a result of this study, the questions in the minds about the parts of the demanding ınsha which are included in Hatim's poems, the parts that are used in their original meanings or out of their original meanings and whether the meaning obtained when used outside the original meaning is obtained from the context or from the style itself has been answered. In addition to this, the information given about Hâtim's identity, his poems, the values he defended in his poems and the examples of demanding inşâ in his poems will also answer the questions.In the introduction part of our study, the sub-disciplines of the science of rhetoric are briefly mentioned and a brief information about Hâtim et-Tâî and his poems is given. Afterwards, the subject of ınsha which is one of the two main titles of the science of meaning is included and the poems of Hâtim et-Tâî are examined in terms of the styles of command, prohibition, rhetorical question, solicitation and request which form the parts of demanding construction. In the conclusion part of our study, the results of the research are given.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet TEKİN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Ondokuz Mayıs Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/omuifd/issue/70874/1052947
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2173031
