Makale Başlığı: Investigation of the Relationship of Irisin and Metabolic Diseases in Life Cycle
Özet: Irisin was first described in 2012 as an exercise-induced myokine. It is the proteolytic product of the type I membrane protein fibronectin type III domain 5 (FNDC5). The communication of skeletal muscle with other tissues is provided by the release of hormones known as myokines. It has been suggested that the positive effects of exercise are derived from myokines. Irisin is secreted in response to acute exercise, it causes browning of white adipose tissue and increasing energy expenditure through thermogenesis. It has been stated that the thermogenic effect of irisin may have a therapeutic role in some metabolic diseases and disorders that are improved by exercise. According to studies investigating the relationship between irisin and obesity, a positive correlation was observed between BMI and irisin levels. While irisin level was high in individuals with Type 1 diabetes, it was found to be low in individuals with Type 2 diabetes and gestational diabetes. Less irisin is secreted from the myocardium in cardiovascular diseases. In addition, individuals with metabolic syndrome have a higher tendency to increase their irisin levels. Irisin has a positive effect on preventing muscle mass loss and osteoporosis fractures especially in the elderly. Besides, in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, irisin levels were found to decrease with the exacerbation of the disease. Results of the studies concerning the effects of exercise and lifestyle changes on irisin levels in both adults and children are contradictory. In this review, the relationship of irisin with obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, metabolic syndrome, metabolic bone diseases, non-alcoholic fatty liver was investigated on different age groups.
Yazar isimleri: ['Solmaz Ece YILMAZ', 'Hayrettin MUTLU']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Sağlık Profesyonelleri Araştırma Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jhpr/issue/73056/1148955
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2558239
