Makale Başlığı: Observations of Different In-Service Training Environments on Teaching Physics: A Qualitative Descriptive Study
Özet: The purpose of this study was to examine the in-service training environments of physics teachers. In the study, observations were made in an in-service training course and an in-service training seminar organized by the Ministry of National Education for physics teachers. Observations were made by the researcher as a participant observer. In the study, interactions in in-service training environments were described for some limited situations. These situations were discussed in the context of the difference in the location of in-service training, the period of the program, the managers of the activities, and whether the participation is voluntary or compulsory. As a result of the study, the effects of the selection of the place were stated on the participants. The differences that emerge in the context of the competencies of the manager were discussed. It has been determined that there are activities that allow the active participation of teachers in both in-service training programs. It was observed that active participation was ensured in the activities where the participant teachers took duties and responsibilities. It was revealed that teachers were satisfied with such practices and thought that such in-service training would be more effective. In the program in which voluntary participation was ensured, it was observed that the teachers carefully followed even the activities they found boring. In the context of the study results, suggestions were offered to those who plan education, administrators, and researchers.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatma Nur BÜYÜKBAYRAKTAR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Ordu Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Sosyal Bilimler Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/odusobiad/issue/73138/1174244
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2646308
