Makale Başlığı: Wahhābism Understanding of Bid’ah and The Method of Struggle With Bid’ahs
Özet: The concept of bid’ah has entered the Islamic literature since the era of bliss. It has survived to the present day almost without losing its actuality and will undoubtedly continue to exist from now on. The concept of bid’ah, which has been the apple of the eye of Islamic renewal and reform studies throughout the history of Islam, is the most important material used by the groups gathered around this reformation and renewal movement. Some of the reasons why the concept of bid’ah continues to exist effectively are the interactions with different cultures with the growth of Islamic lands, traditional and cultural factors, and some practices related to previous sharias. Throughout history, sunnah has always been opposite the concept of bid’ah and they have become two opposite concepts to each other. This concept, which makes its presence felt in every period, generally made its presence felt more in periods when societies deteriorated and moved away from religion. The concept of bid’ah and the groups united around this concept have argued that the return of religion to its origin can only be achieved by abandoning bid‘ahs, and they struggled on this path. They stated that this return to the original will be based on the Sunnah of the Prophet (sav) and the way drawn by the al-salaf al-sālih. For this purpose, groups that have fought against bid’ah in every period of history consider themselves as salafī and claimed that their mission is only to reform and revive people. In this article, we will examine the perspective of Wahhabism, which emerged as an example of this situation, on the concept of bi’dah and what it did to purify religion from bid'ah. In this context, in the first chapter of the introduction,  we will touch to the bid’ah understanding of Muḥammad ʿAbd al-Wahhāb and his followers. In the second part, we will give information about the subjects, behaviors and situations that are accepted as bid’ah by Wahhābis and we will talk about what they did in order to purify from the religion of bid’ahs. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Kasım KOYUNCU']
Yayın Yılı: 16 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Kastamonu Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kuifd/issue/72603/1148413
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2555954
