Makale Başlığı: Ibn al-Sukāʿī and His Contributions to Islamic Historiography
Özet: The Mamlūk State (648-923/1250-1517), one of the largest Muslim-Turkish states in the Islamic history, stands out with its cultural contributions to Islamic Civilization as well as its political and military achievements. Because the material and spiritual support provided by the Mamlūks to the ulama, who migrated to Damascus and al-Kāhira due to the Mongol invasion and the Crusades, laid the foundation for the formation of scientific wealth in this geography. During this period, which is described as the golden age, from the point of view of historiography, not only the ‘ulamā’ class, but also people from all different parts of society wrote works in the field of history. In this study, one of the Christian historians who lived in the first century of the Mamlūk state, Ibn al-Ṣukā‘ī (d. 726/1326) and his work named Tālī Kitāb Wafayāt al-A‘yān will be emphasized. Because this work, which was written as an addendum to Ibn Khallikān (d. 681/1282), draws attention as it is the first work in the genre of obituary (wafayāt) works whose author is a Christian. The author worked as a clerk in the dīwāns in Damascus and wrote his work based on his observations at a time when Muslim-Christian relations were tense. This situation caused some differences both in the way Ibn al-Ṣukā‘ī handled the events and in the content of his work. The longer biographies of Christians in the work, and the specific emphasis on some corruption in the bureaucracy, are some of these differences. At this point, it should be emphasized that the work is the first work to point out corruption and irregularities in early Mamlūk historiography. In this study, it is aimed to provide information about the Christian historian Ibn al-Ṣukā‘ī and to reveal the contributions of his work to Islamic historiography. Because no independent studies about him have been identified in the national and international literature, except for encyclopedic articles. Therefore, this article is the first comprehensive study on the subject of Ibn al-Ṣukā‘ī and his mentioned work.
Yazar isimleri: ['Aygül DÜZENLİ']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Siyer Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/siyer/issue/70853/1117145
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2429777
