Makale Başlığı: Determination of Flood Risks of Filyos Stream Basin (Karabük-Gökçebey) by Multi-Criteria Decision Making Method/The Black Sea-Turkey
Özet: It is necessary to investigate natural disasters as a threat to human life and take the necessarymeasures with the information obtained. In this study, the research area was selected as theKarabük-Gökçebey part of the Filyos stream Basin, one of the important streams of the WesternBlack Sea. The study aims to identify flood risk areas by Multi-Criteria Decision Making Method inthe designated area. To make a flood risk map, the soil, lithology, land use, stream proximity, elevation,slope, and view characteristics of the site have been converted to a raster data format toanalyze in a GIS environment. Land use characteristics were obtained from satellite images usingremote sensing techniques. The analytical hierarchy process is used to determine the impact ofeach criterion on the flood. Thus, these characteristics in the complex relationship defined withthe AHS decision-making method and the ArcMap program’s flood risk map were made. In addition,the place with a significant risk area emerged as the Gokcebey settlement. Kelemen and InceCreek, tributaries of the side stream, have also shown themselves as risky areas. Other elementsthat increase the risks can be displayed as filling the stream beds with alluvial material and buildingcommercial and residential structures on the stream beds. Constructed channel, culverts,HES periodic maintenance of such systems, removal of accumulated material in the bed, a newzoning plan to be perverted from the stream bed of the new residential area planning, public institutions and institutions should jointly carry out the necessary work and share it with regular risk analyses, to gain a wooded area of forest destruction and preventing the back of the damaged area may include measures that can be taken.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mücahit COŞKUN', 'Güney ORTAÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 6 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Doğu Coğrafya Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ataunidcd/issue/71174/951997
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1822455
