Makale Başlığı: The Historical Stages of the Spread of the Ten Qiraʼat in the Islamic World From the First Hijri Century Until the Present Century
Özet: A number of methods and principles were put forward by the Prophet, the Sahaba and the tabieen regarding the understanding and interpretation of the Qur'an, which is the divine revelation with human language. In the following periods, scholars made some new additions on these principles according to the needs of each period. These methods and rules relating to the understanding of the Qur'an have been transmitted dynamically from the time of the Prophet to the present day. Qiraʼat is at the forefront among the Qur'anic sciences. For this reason, it has been a branch of science that has been given sufficient care and attention at every stage of history from past to present. However, despite the interest shown in Qiraʼat, the resources related to the history of the spread of this science are limited. In the written works of the first period and later ones, it is very difficult to find answers to the questions about how some Qiraʼat spread or disappeared in certain historical stages or how their geographical distribution was in the Islamic world.This article covers the history of the spread of Qiraʼat in the entire Islamic world from the first Hijri century to the present. It deals with the development of Qiraʼat spread in the Mecca, Medina, Damascus, Kufa, Basra, Egypt, North Africa, Andalusia and Anatolia etc. regions from the first century of Hijri to the present day and the reasons that triggered the process of spreading from one country to another, and its development from one time period to another.  While some of the reasons for the spread of Qiraʼat are the fame of Qurr'a and their active activities in this field, sometimes they are related to the characteristics of Qiraʼat. Political or doctrinal    motives were influential in the spread of some recitations.Despite the importance of the science of Qiraʼat and the interest shown to it, there are not many studies dealing with the stages of Qiraʼat in the historical process. This study aimed to fill this gap to some extent.
Yazar isimleri: ['Süleyman NAROL', 'Huda FATTAHI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Tevilat
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tevilat/issue/67937/1128578
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2477447
