Makale Başlığı: The Education Case
Özet: A famous rap singer and human rights activist on social media platforms, Richard Williams, also known by the nickname Prince Ea, is actually an anthropologist, and in 2016, he released a short, six-minute film called I Sued The School System, where he sues today’s education system. Seen by millions of people and still shared on numerous websites, the film draws attention to the fact that education should aim to freely develop different abilities and possibilities in people, help them grow as independent and autonomous thinkers, and invigorate their spirit. He claims, though, that today’s education is but a lifeless body, not fulfilling its duty and even misusing it, treating people as a means rather than an end. So, he accuses -and even sues- today’s educational understanding/system for robotization, killing students’ creativity and individuality. Reflecting his activism with this short film, Williams conveys some provocative messages about education. What is notable about his messages is that Williams invites millions of people to look at education and all that occurs within it from the perspective of human characteristics and potentials, seeing the often-forgotten or neglected ethical dimension of education, reflecting on its meaning, and questioning its nature and purpose.Responding to his invitation, this article discusses the meanings of the word education, considering the two different aspects based on its Latin roots: educare and educere. The present study also tackles the wide gap between the meanings of these two terms, exploring how it reflects on the purpose of education for students. In this context, this article questions the nature of such an education that helps people develop characteristics and potentials based on the structure of human nature, put their abilities into practice, achieve self-realization, protect their ethical values, and live decently, or as Williams puts it, one that invigorates the human soul. We also try to reveal the true nature of today’s education, which he deems no different from a ghost. In its conclusion, the article suggests that such education that invigorates the human soul should involve training in two meanings of the word: both educare and educere.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşe Çiğdem KOCAMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 2 Mayıs 2022
Dergi ismi: Süleyman Demirel Üniversitesi Fen-Edebiyat Fakültesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sufesosbil/issue/69783/1075811
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2262423
