Makale Başlığı: PROPHET MOHAMMAD AND CALIPH ALI IN THE “DEDE QORQUT RUMOR” COLLECTED IN ZANJAN
Özet: The information about Dede Qorqut, who is accepted as the narrator of the Dede Qorqut Epics, is included both in his narrations in the 	introduction section of the Book of Dede Qorqut and in some historical sources and oral narrations. One of the oral narrations is the “Dede Qorqut Rumor” compiled from Âşık Ferruh Bayat, who lives in the city of Zanjan, Iran today. In the first part of this rumor, which consists of 4 parts, various features of Dede Qorqut such as being a nebi (prophet) or dervish and having a say over the Turks are mentioned. In the second part, it is explained that Dede Qorqut went to Mecca and met with Prophet Mohammad and became a Muslim, and after learning the methods of Islam, he returned to Azerbaijan and conveyed Islam to the Turks. The third part includes the interpretation of why Ali was not given the caliphate, which he claims after Prophet Mohammad's death. In the last part, after the caliphate was not given to Ali, it includes Dede Qorqut's defense of his right to the caliphate, with the poems he read and the epics he told, making a qopuz. While some of the information about Dede Qorqut mentioned in the narration are similar to those in the Book of Dede Qorqut and in historical sources, some of them are not in the mentioned sources. These parts have been shaped by the political and religious structure of Iran. For example, Dede Qorqut's performance of his art to defend Ali's rights can be considered in this context. It is also known that Iranian Turks used Dede Qorqut as a tool in the construction and protection of their national identity. Therefore, this narration, which is important for the construction and protection of national identity apart from the religious and political structure of the region where the text was compiled, has been examined on the basis of these three elements. As a result, we think that this narration, which is compiled from Zanjan and contains Dede Qorqut's meeting with Mohammad, inventing saz (a stringed instrument) and defending Ali in his performances with it, will contribute to Dede Qorqut's studies in terms of containing information about different features of Dede Qorqut.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fazıl ÖZDAMAR']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Çeşm-i Cihan: Tarih Kültür ve Sanat Araştırmaları Dergisi E-Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cesmicihan/issue/70554/1104325
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2377696
