Makale Başlığı: Tubo-ovarian abscess in postmenopausal patients: a tertiary single center experience
Özet: Objective: The purpose of the present study was to reveal the experience of a single tertiary center in management and outcomes of tubo ovarian abscess (TOA) in postmenopausal patients.Materials and Methods: The present study was conducted between January 2012 and June 2021. One hundred and twenty-seven hospitalized cases of TOA were identified from the medical records and retrospectively reviewed. Collected data included age, parity, menopausal status, intrauterin device (IUD) usage, smoking history, prior procedure, radiological findings, medical and surgical treatments, laboratory findings, pathology and length of hospital stay.Results: The mean age of all patients were 39.2 ± 9.8 years, and 22 (17.3%) patients were postmenopausal. The need for surgical intervention, the intrauterine device usage, duration of hospitalization, and malignancy at final pathology were significantly higher in postmenopausal patients (p < 0.05). The mean day for surgery was earlier in postmenopausal patients (p < 0.05). The radiological and laboratory findings were similar according to the menopausal status of patients. Among postmenopausal patients, the mean age at diagnosis, the duration of hospitalization, abscess size, and abscess volume were significantly higher in patients who also underwent surgery compared to those receiving only medical treatment (p < 0.05).Conclusion: Postmenopausal patients with TOA differ from traditional abscesses regarding having more comorbidities, a history of extended IUD usage, and a higher possibility of occult malignancies. Postmenapausal patients are more tend to underwent surgeries, however individualized treatment strategies may required in clinical practice.
Yazar isimleri: ['Murat GÖZÜKÜÇÜK', 'Utku AKGÖR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Jinekoloji-Obstetrik ve Neonatoloji Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jgon/issue/72893/1002690
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2002071
