Makale Başlığı: Investigation of barriers and facilitators in telerehabilitation applications  of physiotherapists in the COVID-19 pandemic
Özet: Purpose: Telerehabilitation is defined as the remote delivery of rehabilitation services through information and communication technology. The aim of our study was to determine the barriers and facilitators in telerehabilitation practices of physiotherapists during the COVID-19 pandemic.Methods: The study was designed in descriptive cross-sectional type. Our study included 99 (46.9%) women and 112 (53.1%) men with a mean age of 29.9±6.7 years and mean working time of 6.9±6.7 years, who applied telerehabilitation in clinics in Istanbul between October and December 2021. The study was carried out with a total of 211 physiotherapists. The attitudes and behaviors of physiotherapists regarding telerehabilitation applications were questioned with 31 items prepared according to the Theoretical Domains Framework (TDF) guideline. Descriptive statistics and explanatory factor analysis were used in the data analysis.Results: As a result of the factor analysis of the items determined according to the TDF guideline, 25 items in 6 dimensions were determined. As a result of the explanatory factor analysis of the TDF questionnaire, the KMO sample adequacy value was evaluated as “very good” with a score of 0.863, while the Cronbach alpha value is determined as 0.91. The strongest facilitator affecting the attitude of physiotherapists toward telerehabilitation practices, with an average of 3.81±0.91 “Telerehabilitation practices benefit public health.” the strongest barrier is the item “I received training on how to apply telerehabilitation” with an average of 2.11±1.19.Conclusion: The scale prepared within the TDF framework will be an important tool in the evaluation of attitudes and behaviors by physiotherapists. The skills, targets, environmental resources and barriers to social impacts determined through our scale prepared with the TDF guideline will contribute to the determination of the content of telerehabilitation training.
Yazar isimleri: ['Eren TİMURTAŞ', 'Mine Gülden POLAT']
Yayın Yılı: 19 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Exercise Therapy and Rehabilitation
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jetr/issue/71292/1096192
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2343700
