Makale Başlığı: CAN A THIRD PERSON BE LIABLE FOR THE DAMAGES WHO ESTABLISHED SEXUAL RELATIONSHIP WITH A PERSON WHOM HE OR SHE KNOWS TO BE MARRIED?
Özet: Turkish Supreme Court, in its 2018 decision of the joint chambers, has ruled that the third person is not obliged to be loyal to the spouse, and the third person shall not be deemed to have committed a tortious act against the deceived spouse, that the third person cannot be held responsible for the violation of the personality rights of the deceived spouse, and the compensation by way of reflection shall not be at stake and that even Art. 49/II of the Turkish Code of Obligation shall not be a basis for the third party to be condemned to moral damages. In our opinion, aforesaid decision of the joint chambers is highly inaccurate. It is quite obvious that the third person is not obliged to be loyal to the deceived spouse and the loyalty obligation belongs only to the spouse. However, there is no doubt that the deceived spouse's right to honour and dignity is included in the personal rights in terms of Art. 24 and 25 of the Turkish Code of Obligations. It will be the case in the vast majority of cases that the third person's sexual intercourse with a person whom he or she knows to be married violates the deceived spouse's right to honour and dignity, in fact, his or her absolute right. The institution of marriage, in our society, gives spouses a particular status in society and therefore imposes some responsibilities. Acting against the concerned responsibilities may put the spouses in difficult positions in the society and even destroy their spiritual world. The status provided by the marriage institution should be accepted as part of the personality rights of the spouses. A third person who has sexual relations with someone's spouse knowing that he or she is married directly attacks the personality of the spouse. Therefore, the issue here is not the compensation by way of reflection, but the moral damages inflicted on the deceived spouse himself or herself. In our opinion, concerned decision of the joint chambers shall be revoked with another decision of the joint chambers.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 15 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Yeditepe Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yuhfd/issue/73070/1189464
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2709985
