Makale Başlığı: The History of Salur Kazan'in Evi Yagmalandigi Boy
Özet: The second epic in the Book of Dede Korkut is the Salur Kazan’in Evi Yagmalandigi Boy. There are two main historical-geographical-literary-cultural layers in Salur Kazan’in Evi Yagmalandigi Boy: the Lower Layer and the Upper Layer. The Lower Layer consists of the Gokturk-Turgesh Layer and the Oghuz Layer. However, like many other Dede Korkut epics, the Oldest Periods Layer, the Scythian/Saka-Xiongnu-Kangju-Wusun Layer can be found in the Salur Kazan’in Evi Yagmalandigi Boy. An important historical layer of the Salur Kazan’in Evi Yagmalandigi Boy is related to the Gokturk-Turgesh period. There are many historical-epic-legendary-mythological layers, the oldest of which reaches the depths of history, in the Salur Kazan/Kazan type, the protagonist of the epic, which has an important place in Dede Korkut. An important historical layer of the Salur Kazan/Kazan type in Dede Korkut is related to the founding ruler of the Black Turgesh State, Su-lu Kagan (716-738). An important historical layer of the Salur Kazan’in Evi Yagmalandigi Boy and the rumors reflected in the Secere-i Terakime are related to the Bolcu War in 698, which is also mentioned in the Old Turkish Inscriptions. Some events and episodes in the Salur Kazan’in Evi Yagmalandigi Boy and Kazan Bey Oglu Uruz Bey’in Tutsak Oldugu Boy may have been mixed. A lower layer of Salur Kazan’in Evi Yagmalandigi Boy is related to the Oghuz period. The existence of a Turkmenistan variant of Salur Kazan’in Evi Yagmalandigi Boy and its rumors called Salir Gazan, the similarities of many place names and epic in the epic with the Central Asian Turkish epics, the historical roots of this epic before the 10th-11th centuries, when the Oghuzs were still in Central Asia. The top layer of Salur Kazan’in Evi Yagmalandigi Boy, on the other hand, is related to the later periods. In this study, the history of the Salur Kazan’in Evi Yagmalandigi Boy in Dede Korkut was examined.
Yazar isimleri: ['Dursun Can EYÜBOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: BENGİ Dünya Yörük-Türkmen Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bengi/issue/72633/1116050
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2425318
