Makale Başlığı: The Astronomy Education in Türkiye With The Evaluations of Prof. Dr. Zeki Aslan
Özet: The aim of this study is one of our country's precious astronomer Prof. Dr. Zeki Aslan's explanations and evaluations, as well as the interpretation of what needs to be done to clarify the subject of astronomy education in Turkey and to increase the effectiveness of astronomy education.In this context, the basic qualitative research method was used in the study. Structured and semi-structured interviews were conducted with the participant during the data collection stage, and the participant's scientific work was examined using the document review technique. The findings of the study were obtained by performing data analysis using the descriptive analysis method.According to the findings obtained from the study, Prof. Dr. Zeki Aslan's evaluation of astronomy education in Turkey It has been evaluated that the interest in astronomy has increased in recent years and that the latest update in the Science Curriculum is at a level that will contribute to increasing public awareness of the field of astronomy. Also with the in crease of the number of science festivals, community science projects supported by TÜBITAK, observatory and planetarium , access to information about the field of astronomy has in creasedand it was evaluated to be continuing to increase the awareness of this field. It was seen that it is important to provide students with basic astronomy knowledge by organizing units and achievements at the primary education level, and it was suggested that the inclusion of astronomy subjects, which are elective courses in secondary education, in the category of compulsory courses will contribute to the development of high school students in this field.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yeşim YAVUZ ÇİV', 'Özlem KORAY']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Cumhuriyet Uluslararası Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://cije.cumhuriyet.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/72802/1026092
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2090692
