Makale Başlığı: Perceptions of Senior Public Relations Practitioners Toward Academics and Public Relations Academics in Turkey
Özet: In many countries, there are many studies conducted on how different groups perceive the public relations profession. In addition, studies on how public relations professionals should be are included in the relevant literature. However, there is very little research done on the perception of public relations academics. The aim of this study is to investigate the perceptions of public relations professionals toward public relations academics. Twenty semi-structured interviews are held with Turkish public relations practitioners from Istanbul and Izmir cities of Turkey who have at least ten years of work experience. The research conducted aims to understand the perception of Turkish public relations academics by the senior practitioners, including their opinions, strengths, and weaknesses. Findings show that academics are considered as reputable, but the negative image of public relations as a profession has been carried over to public relations academia. The participants value the contributions of public relations educators to the field, but similar to how they view themselves, they do not see educators as inseparable from the perception of public relations. The participants emphasized the educational role of public relations academics and attributed them a responsibility of preparing students for professional work life. They all agree that public relations academics must establish stronger ties with the sector. They also think that public relations academics should be more visible to practitioners and society. They assume that this visibility will create a bridge between society/industry and them.
Yazar isimleri: ['Tevhide Serra GÖRPE', 'Burcu ÖKSÜZ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Connectist: Istanbul University Journal of Communication Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/connectist/issue/65849/878327
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1570155
