Makale Başlığı: Can Platelet Mass Index Predict Respiratory Support Duration in Late Preterm Infants with Transient Tachypnea of the Newborn?
Özet: Aim: Transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN) is the most common respiratory problem encountered by physicians working in the neonatal intensive care unit, and its incidence is higher in late preterm infants compared to term infants. Platelets prevent pulmonary fluid collection and pulmonary edema by an unknown mechanism. Platelet function can be more accurately assessed by platelet mass index (PMI) rather than mean platelet volüme (MPV) or platelet count alone. In our study, it was planned to investigate the duration of need for respiratory support and the relationship between thrombocyte markers, especially PMI, and other respiratory outcomes in late preterm infants with the diagnosis of TTN.Materials and Methods: In this retrospective study, data of all late preterm newborns whose tachypnea lasted for at least 12 hours and who were hospitalized in the neonatal intensive care unit of Buca Seyfi Demirsoy Training and Research Hospital with the diagnosis of TTN between August 1, 2020-July 31, 2021 were analyzed from medical records. The thrombocyte markers, leukocyte and neutrophil values of the infants and respiratory support durations were compared. In addition, these parameters were evaluated in terms of possible differences according to gestational weeks.Results: 52 infants were included in the study. The median gestational week was 35 weeks (34-366/7), and the mean birth weight was 2647474. There was no correlation between total respiratory support duration or >48 hours of respiratory support in infants and platelet count, MPV, PMI, leukocyte and absolute neutrophil count (ANS). However, it was observed that the PMI values were lower in babies who received respiratory support for more than 72 hours, and this was statistically significant. In addition, it was observed that MPV value was significantly higher in babies born at 35th gestational week and ANS value was significantly higher in babies born at 36th gestational week.Conclusion: In our study, it was seen that PMI, one of the platelet markers, was associated with the need for respiratory support for more than 72 hours in late preterm infants with TTN, as the mean PMI values of these infants being lower. However, a similar relationship was not found between other platelet markers and the duration of respiratory support.
Yazar isimleri: ['Suzan ŞAHİN', 'Mehmet Yekta ÖNCEL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Jinekoloji-Obstetrik ve Neonatoloji Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jgon/issue/72893/1062129
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2209101
