Makale Başlığı: Towards Comparative Collocations Dictionary of The Contemporary Turkish Dialects: Verb collocations in Azerbaijan and Turkey Turkish
Özet: The vocabulary of languages consists of different elements. As a type of word combination, collocations are one of the most important elements of the vocabulary of languages. It constitutes a large part of the vocabulary. However, collocations are one of the vocabulary items that make it very difficult for translators both in the transfer of text between dialects and in the translation of two different language texts, and at the same time that lexicographers have difficulty in coping with. The vocabulary of languages consists of different elements. A type of word combination in order to overcome the difficulties arising from collocations, word combinations in a language's vocabulary must be distinguished from other word combinations, especially by determining collocations. When translating and transferring texts from different languages and dialects, it is necessary to know which lexical structure or collocation in the source agreement union is equivalent to which lexical structure or collocation in the target agreement union. For these purposes, in this study, it has been determined which lexical structure corresponds to a collocation in Turkey and Azerbaijan Turkish. This is a small step forward for the Comparative Collocation Dictionary of Contemporary Turkish Dialects, which is considered to be prepared prospectively. Two types of verb collocations have been identified in which the noun element is the same and the verb element is variable and the verb element is the same, the noun element is variable. The second group of verb collocations were compared. It has been determined that there is an organic relationship between the false equivalence phenomenon and collocations. It has been observed that the false equivalence phenomenon occurs in collocational structures, especially when it comes to verb collocations. This shows that transfer errors caused by false equivalence can be significantly overcome by recognizing collocational structures.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1192531
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2722536
