Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of pediatric intoxication patients followed-up in intensive care unit.
Özet: Purpose: Our study was planned to reach out intoxication patient’s clinical characteristics, treatment modalities and outcomes of those patients followed up in pediatric intensive care unit.Materials and method: We examined patients admitted to our hospital or transferred from another medical center to our PICU, diagnosed with intoxication from 01 January 2019 to 31 December 2021, retrospectively. We collected patient’s demographic data. Glasgow Coma Scale score at admission, medical treatments applied to patients’ mechanical ventilation requirement, hemodialysis and plasmapheresis applied was recorded. Outcomes evaluated by survival, days in PICU and days in hospital. We divided study group as adolescent group (>120-month-old) and non-adolescent group (<120-month-old). All collected variables were compared between two groups. Results: During study period 114 patients included into the study. Most of the patients were in adolescent age group (52.6%). If we examined intoxication causes, in adolescent patient’s suicide was major cause of intoxication. In patients below <120-month-old unintentional intoxication was the main reason. Antipsychotics, antidepressants and analgesics were the most common medication causes of intoxication respectively. Mechanical ventilation applied to 4 patients. 5 patients were hemodialyzed. Plasmapheresis performed to 5 patients. All patients were survived. Median days in PICU was 1 day. Median days in hospital was 3 days.Conclusion: In our study, 2.8% of all PICU admissions were intoxications. Antipsychotics, antidepressants and analgesics were the most common medication causes of intoxications. Antidepressants intake were seen in higher rates in adolescent age group. Antidepressant prescription and drug control should be more carefully in adolescent age group.
Yazar isimleri: ['Serhan ÖZCAN', 'Seçil AKAY', 'İrem BOZKURT', 'Emel UYAR', 'Oktay PERK', 'Ayla AKCA ÇAĞLAR']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Pediatric Practice and Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/pprjournal/issue/72478/1157162
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2580325
