Makale Başlığı: The Analysis of The Relationship between Organizational Identification and Organizational Forgiveness Perceptions of Teachers
Özet: This study aimed to determine the organizational identification and organizational forgiveness perception levels of teachers and the relationship between their organizational identification and organizational forgiveness perceptions. Besides, it was also examined whether organizational identification and organizational forgiveness perceptions of teachers differed according to demographic variables (gender, seniority, seniority at the same school, and school type). The research was designed in the survey model. The population of the research was composed of the teachers working in the state primary, secondary, and high schools in Efeler District of Aydın Province in the 2021-2022 academic year. The sample of the research was composed of 398 teachers determined by using simple random sampling technique. In the research, a survey form involving “Personal Information Form”, “Organizational Identification Scale”, and “Organizational Forgiveness Scale” was used as the data collection tool. Data analysis was performed with descriptive statistics, appropriate difference tests, and correlation analyses. According to the results of the research, it was found that the organizational identification levels of teachers were relatively high, and their organizational forgiveness levels were at moderate level. While the organizational identification perception levels of teachers differed significantly according to seniority and gender, they did not differ according to school type and seniority at the same school. Furthermore, it was revealed that the organizational forgiveness levels of teachers did not differ significantly according to demographic variables in overall scale and in all the sub-dimensions. It was also determined that there was a positive “weak” relationship between the organizational identification and organizational forgiveness perceptions of teachers.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Eğitim Kuram ve Uygulama Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ekuad/issue/72435/1169313
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2625571
