Makale Başlığı: NEO-NOIR AS A DANGEROUS STREET OF CINEMA: BLOOD SIMPLE AND FARGO
Özet: After the Second World War, emotions such as anxiety, chaos, violence and anger began to dominate social life. This situation has caused the world to be seen as a dark, unreliable and fearful place. This mood, which determines the relations between modern people, has started to come to the fore in the films of American directors. Thus, these films with a dark atmosphere were named as 'Film Noir' by the critics. Film Noir clearly differs from traditional Hollywood films in terms of dramaturgy and mise-en-scène. Since the 1940s, many films of this genre have been made for about twenty years, but after a while, the number of films made has decreased. By the 1970s, Film Noir was modernized and conceptualized as Neo-Noir, and films in this genre began to be made again. Neo-Noir, while adhering to the basic features of the classic Film Noir, differs from it in certain points. Therefore, this study aims to reveal in which aspects Neo-Noir differs from classical Film Noir. In line with this basic purpose, the films 'Blood Simple' (1984) and 'Fargo' (1996) from the filmography of Joel and Ethan Coen Brothers, one of the prominent directors of Neo-Noir, were selected by purposive sampling method. The films determined as samples were handled according to the genre criticism method. Genre criticism has been made according to the elements of "narrative, theme, characters and visual iconography". According to the results of the genre criticism, it has been determined that the theme of both films is "crime" (murder). Although there are basic characters such as "detective, victim, criminal" in accordance with the Noir genre in the films, it is seen that they differ from the characteristics and situation of the classic Film Noir characters. The analyzed films also differ from the classic Film Noir in terms of "color, camera technique, aesthetic style, visual iconography, design of time and space, staging and narrative editing." In the study, it was concluded that the films Blood Simple and Fargo can be evaluated within the scope of Neo-Noir.
Yazar isimleri: ['İkbal BOZKURT AVCI']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Mayıs 2022
Dergi ismi: İnönü Üniversitesi İletişim Fakültesi Elektronik Dergisi (İNİF E-Dergi)
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/inifedergi/issue/70036/978378
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1907328
