Makale Başlığı: An evaluation on Durkheim’s understanding of knowledge and society
Özet: At a time when sociology has not yet been able to prove its scientific status, the studies conducted by Durkheim were the driving force on the way to give sociology its own methodology. By freeing sociology from the domination of philosophy and psychology, he has provided the distinction between the individual and the social, subjective inferences and objective data. Durkheim has evaluated the social phenomena, which he described as "things", with their externalities on the individual and their oppressive aspects that impose them on him. In his deterministic sociology, the maker is the society, not the individual. The study of Suicide, which gave scientific legitimacy to sociology, is the concrete example of Durkheim's attempt to show the society behind the phenomena reduced to the individual. He has tried to reveal the solidarity forms of traditional and modern societies, which he classified as mechanical and organic solidarity in The Division of Labour in Society, by comparing the legal rules of both societies. Durkheim has seen the task of understanding modern society as the responsibility of sociology and chose primitive societies with simple organization as a starting point. Durkheim has added a new perspective to the sociology of religion by stating that religion emerged from society. His journey to the origins of knowledge is an effort to shed light on the spirituality in the morphology of social knowledge. Durkheim has believed that logic, morality, science, and great social institutions arose from religion. At the center of his sociological theory is the emphasis on society, but the society owes its ability to realize its own existence and the perpetuation of its unity to the opportunities provided by religion. In this text, the main points of Durkheim's theory of knowledge and society will be emphasized, and the controversial aspects of his ideas will be touched upon.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bahadır ÇOBAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: NOSYON: Uluslararası Toplum ve Kültür Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/nosyon/issue/71049/1109810
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2400501
