Makale Başlığı: TURKEY'S DE-EUROPEANISATION FROM THE PERSPECTIVES OF BRUSSELS REPORTERS: EVALUATIONS ON EUROPEAN JOURNALISM IN THE FIRST 10 YEARS OF NEGOTIATIONS
Özet: Since the 1990s, when the European Union entered a period of deepening by developing its action and policy areas, the effects of its institutions and policies in member and candidate countries have been discussed. The addition of ten new members to the Union with its fifth enlargement in 2004 has also activated the political and academic debates on European integration. In this period, Europeanization started to come to the fore as a new key concept and field of study to explain the political developments that were previously expressed with concepts such as internationalization or globalization. Europeanization studies produced in the 2000s, instead of accepting the relations of the EU with member/candidate countries as one-sided and hierarchical; accept that Europeanization can also take place bottom-up, horizontally, and vertically. In this direction, the effects of the process on ideas, values, views, and identities are examined intensively, along with the ones on national political issues, policy areas, and institutional dynamics. In some communication studies that argue that the media has an active role in the Europeanization process, it is claimed that the national media will contribute to the Europeanization of national public spaces by including European subjects and actors in their content so that national actors in different countries can identify with a common European identity. The present study is based on in-depth interviews with nine Brussels correspondents to test this claim in the case of Turkey. The interview findings reveal that, except for the first years of the negotiations, there is generally a Europeanization trend in Turkey that is irrelevant to the EU. Between 2005 and 2007, the interest shown to the EU administration and other European countries decreased and they lost their legitimacy in the news. On the other hand, it is found that European news is designed to prioritize national interests and sensitivities in every period. For this reason, the language used has often been confrontational and negative. This situation has strengthened the tendency of Euroscepticism especially after 2011. The study reveals that European journalism in Turkey does not contribute to a holistic understanding of Europeanness, namely identification, on the contrary, it triggers alienation from Europe.
Yazar isimleri: ['Özlem ERKMEN']
Yayın Yılı: 14 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Mülkiye Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mulkiye/issue/72239/1033311
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2118588
