Makale Başlığı: Determining the seasonal change of the feed values of bush species that are common around Kovada Lake
Özet: This study was carried out in Kovada lake national park in Isparta in 2018-2020 to determine the forage values of common grazeable bush species. Ten species including bush, shrub-shaped tree and shrub species (Phillyrea latifolia, Spartium junceum, Juniperus oxycedrus, Quercus coccifera, Quercus infectoria, Coronilla emerus, Colutea melanocalyx, Fraxinus excelsior, Paliurus spina-christi ve Crataegus monogyna) were used in the study. Leaf samples were taken from these species in all seasons. In this study, dry matter (DM) ratio, crude protein (CP) ratio, NDF, ADF, total digestible nutrients (TDN), relative feed value (RFV) and tannin ratios of each species were determined.According to the results of the analysis of variance, the difference between seasons and bush species was found to be statistically significant in all the examined characteristics.According to the two-year averages, when the seasons are compared, the highest crude protein ratio, TDN and RFV were obtained in the spring, while they decreased as the seasons progressed, and the lowest values were obtained in the winter. The lowest dry matter ratios, ADF and NDF values were obtained in the spring and increased in parallel with the progress of the seasons. The lowest tannin ratios were obtained in spring and summer, while the highest values were determined in winter.When the species were compared, the lowest dry matter and NDF ratio were found in C. melanocalyx, ADF ratio in P. spina-christi, and tannin ratio in P. latifolia, S. junceum, C. emerus, C. melanocalyx and F. excelsior. The highest crude protein ratio was determined in C. emerus, TDN P. spina-christi and RFV C. melanocalyx species.Consequently, it has been seen that the bush, shrub-shaped tree and shrub species in the maquis have an important potential as high quality feed for ruminant animals in the critical period in semi-arid and arid regions.
Yazar isimleri: ['Emre BIÇAKÇI', 'Mevlüt TÜRK', 'Yasin KARATEPE']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye Ormancılık Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tjf/issue/72759/1124147
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2458976
