Makale Başlığı: Purification Rituals in Judaism from Psycho-Phenomenological Perspective
Özet: Purification rituals are performed to purge away material or spiritual pollution to begin worship or to be ready to experience the sacred. In this study, which aims to examine the purification rituals in Judaism, document scanning model was used. The phenomenological method was used for the analytical determination of when or in which situations the purification rituals were performed. Likewise, the morphological method was used for the analytical determination of which materials and how the purification rituals were performed. Issues such as how authentic or how original the purification rituals are in Judaism are excluded. Likewise, the differences in practice seen in the heretical currents in the Jewish community are excluded. It is assumed that the findings and evaluations of this study will contribute to a comparative study on purification rituals between other religions and Judaism.  The understanding of spiritual absolution shaped by purification rituals, which helps people who believe that they realize spiritual purification to help feel psychological relief, also contributes to public health. The rules and scope of purification rituals are handled together with the psychology of impureness and guiltiness. In addition, the phenomenon of purification has been associated with the destiny. At the same time, many psychological and social sanctions have been developed to ensure that these rituals are performed regularly. It is intended that those who cannot fulfill the purification rituals for any reason will feel unclean, unprotected, and devoid of divine grace. It was asked to establish a link between the misfortunes experienced during this period and the impureness of the person himself/herself. Those who did not perform the rituals deliberately were excluded from society and punished. In terms of phenomenology, it has been seen that the purification rituals in Judaism are performed in the following situations: These are occasions such as birth, wedding and death, daily activities such as waking up from sleep, and eating, before starting worship or entering a place of worship, holy days and religious festivals. Purification rituals have typological types of material and spiritual purification. These rituals are performed in different ways in terms of morphology. These rituals are performed in forms of water washing, burning with fire, praying, fasting, wearing amulets, confessing one’s sin, repenting, giving alms, paying ransom, sacrificing animals or having a circumcision.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa TURAL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Din Psikolojisi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tdpd/issue/70822/1017666
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2057998
