Makale Başlığı: Three Commentators Who Commented The Qur'an with The Qur'an: al- Shankıtî (d. 1974), al-Khatib (d. 1985), Tahrânî (d. 2012)
Özet: The importance of sciences is measured by the interest (knowledge) of those sciences. We can say that the science of tafsir has a high level in the sciences because it is the subject of the Quran. If the tafsir methods are subjected to a hierarchy in the tafsir science, the most beautiful among them is; It is seen that the Quran is interpreted with the Quran. The interpretation of the Quran with the Quran is to understand the revelation with the text of revelation. This method was the most used method between the Companions and the subjects in the first century of Islam. Because, in addition to the text of the Quran that was read and memorized, there were no books, comments or additional texts other than the prophet. Sahabe (the Companions of the Prophet-peace be upon him) would try to understand in a gradually way by memorizing the text of the Quran and they would ask the Messenger of Allah what they could not understand. In cases where he could not ask, he would try to discover the explanatory correlation between some verses of the Qur'an and some other verses. Fatiha; in the verse “اهدنا الصراط المستقيم Guide us the Straight way/the right path”, the next verse explains: “صراط الذين انعمت عليهم / The Way of those on whom You have bestowed Your Grace”. The 69th verse of Surah en-Nisa interprets who have been bestowed Allah’s grace. "انعم الله عليهم من النبيين و الصديقين ... / The prophets that Allah blessed, verify ...". Today, it can be said that the anxiety of staying away from the Qur'an itself is effective in bringing this method to the agenda. It is necessary for the Islamic world to stand out from the judgments that prevent its self-development, and that it depends on the Muslims being alone with the Qur'an. In this sense, 20th century their authors adopted the tafsir method with the Quran. From this sentence al-Shankıtî (d. 1974) Advâu'l-Beyân (16 volumes), Ab-dulkerim al-Khatib (d. 1985), Tefsiru'l-Kur'ânî li'l-Kur'ân (10 volumes) and Sadıkî Tahrânî (d. 2012) brought the works named al-Furqan (30 volumes) into being. In this study, based on the interpretation of the Quran with the Quran in the 20th century, contemporary commentators; we will examine the works that al-Hatib, al-Shankıtî and Tahrânî copyrighted.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 25 Eylül 2021
Dergi ismi: Kesit Akademi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kesitakademi/issue/65705/1019353
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2064560
