Makale Başlığı: Non-linear displacement and deformation damage limits of reinforced concrete circular columns by analytical observations according to TBSC 2018
Özet: In the study, based on the non-linear calculation methods used to determine the seismic performance of structures in TBSC 2018, the stress-strain, moment-curvature, displacement capacity, plastic rotation limits, and deformation-based damage limit values of the reinforced concrete circular cross-section columns were calculated and compared according to different design parameters. The studied effects of the design parameters on the non-linear relation of reinforced concrete columns were also evaluated in terms of strength, curvature, and displacement ductility of the sections. All design parameters affecting the non-linear behavior and deformation limits of the reinforced concrete circular cross-section columns were taken into account. Deformation demands for reinforced concrete structural members are essential for detecting element damage. Based on TBSC (2018), non-linear relationships of reinforced concrete columns were obtained in order to calculate plastic hinge properties and deformation limits. For the Limited Damage, Controlled Damage, and Collapse Prevention performance levels defined for the structural elements in TBSC 2018, plastic rotation and deformation limit values were obtained according to the characteristic values calculated from the non-linear analyzes of reinforced concrete circular columns. For column models, damage limits and damage zones calculated based on TBSC 2018 were shown on the visually obtained moment-curvature relationships. Depending on the upper deformation limit values derived, cross-sectional deformation damage levels were determined and evaluated using the moment-curvature relationships. The variation of the non-linear behavior of column models by design parameters and deformation-based damage limits were examined both analytically and visually. The deformation limits remain in a safer direction as a result of increasing longitudinal and spiral reinforcement ratios for the reinforced concrete circular columns.
Yazar isimleri: ['Saeid FOROUGHİ', 'Bahadır YÜKSEL']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: International Advanced Researches and Engineering Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iarej/issue/72165/1058369
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2194288
