Makale Başlığı: Influences of slope aspects on soil properties of Anatolian black pine forests in the semiarid region of Turkey
Özet: This study assessed the influences of slope aspect on soil physicochemical properties (soil quality indicators) on contiguous south-north facing slopes and hill plain (ridge crest) of the mid-mountain in Central Anatolia, having the same climate, vegetation and parent material. Anatolian black pine (Pinus nigra subsp. Pallasiana var. Pallasiana (Arnold)) was the dominant, and Cedar (Cedrus libani A. Richard), oak (Quercus sp.) were the co-dominant species in all aspects, whereas juniper (Juniperus sp.) was only recorded in north-facing forests. Some of the soil properties were determined on a grid with a 50 m sampling distance on the topsoil (0-15 cm depth). Accordingly, a total of 150 samples were taken from the three adjacent aspects. The data was analyzed using one-way ANOVA statistical methods. The investigated soil variables were soil organic matter (SOM), soil organic carbon (SOC), total nitrogen (TN), bulk density (BD), texture, lime (CaCO3), and pH. The showed that differences between SOC, BD and soil texture were statistically significant at 0.05 levels. Topographic aspect induced microclimatic differences were found to be important factors for the significant variations in SOC stocks. The resulting analyses showed no significant variation (p < 0.05) across slope aspects for SOM, TN, lime, and pH. The differences may be attributed to topographic aspect induced microclimatic differences, which cause differences in the biotic soil component and organic matter trend and affect soil fertility. These results suggest that the slope aspect affects the soils of mountain forests through their direct influence on radiation, evaporation, biological activity, and soil moisture content.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ceyhun GÖL']
Yayın Yılı: 13 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Anadolu Orman Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ajfr/issue/70262/1081634
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2284938
