Makale Başlığı: THEORETICAL INVESTIGSTION OF THE EFFECT OF WATER ON SCHİZOPHRENİA IN THE CONTEXT OF TWO DIFFERENT NEUROTRANSMITTERS
Özet: It is well known that water has crucial importance for daily lives and maintaining healthy lives. In addition to using it as a beverage in daily life, water is also preferred as a treatment element through various methods. In this study, it is focuses on two neurotransmitters, dopamine (C8H11NO2) and serotonin (C10H12N2O), that affect patients with schizophrenia. Three- dimensional drawings of these two neurotransmitters were realized in the gaussian program. The letters formed by the communication of the molecular structure of these two neurotransmitters with water were examined. The electrostatic conduction mechanism of the synapses was investigated by scrutinizing the changes in their bond angles and bond lengths resulting from the interaction of the molecular structure with water. Geometric optimization of the two neurotransmitter structures was done using the LanL2DZ method and TD-SCF information set in the HF (Hartre-Fock) calculation method of the Gaussian 09W program. It was calculated the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) values and the lowest unoccupied molecular (LUMO) values of the molecules formed after the geometric optimization were carried out. In this two constructs, the data obtained after the water-binding was compared with the data obtained before the water binding in the two structures. Water-induced changes in the environment of neurotransmitters were examined. As the bond lengths between atoms in serotonin increase due to interaction with water, the bond angles between atoms generally increase. On the other hand, the opposite situation is observed in dopamine. As a result of the interaction of water and dopamine, the bond lengths of the atoms in dopamine generally increase while the bond angles between the atoms decrease. Because of effects two neurotransmitters on the functioning of brain chemistry are different dopamine and serotonin neurotransmitters work electrostatically reversibly with each other. While the facilitating effect of a sufficient amount of water on dopamine reactions was around 0.401eV, the facilitating effect of water on serotonin reactions was around 3.214eV. Serotonin according to the results of the study, which interacts with a sufficient amount of water, increases its effectiveness approximately eight times more than dopamine.
Yazar isimleri: ['Murat AYHAN', 'Ali BAYRİ']
Yayın Yılı: 11 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/eujhs/issue/71449/885229
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1595909
