Makale Başlığı: RESONANCE THERAPIES AND BIORESONANCE
Özet: Bioresonance treatments have emerged as a treatment method that has been used quite frequently recently in the world and in our country. It was first developed by the German Dr Franz Morell, a medical doctor, homeopathy and acupuncture physician, and Erich Rasche, an electronic engineer, in the 1970s. Although the idea that small electrical vibrations could create certain biological effects in the whole human was put forward with the first studies, the idea that these vibrations were actually immeasurably small and that the "white noise" measured when there was contact between the device and the person was actually just an assumption in those years. Resonance therapies see the living organism as a system consisting of electromagnetic vibrations and these treatments, which are carried out with the help of devices, aim to make energy-based changes in the organism. Basically, bioresonance or bioenergy stimulation treatments consist of a combination of two different methods, homeopathy and acupuncture, which are accepted as traditional and complementary medicine methods.and anti-obesity properties, and recently for its anticancer activity against various types of cancer. For this reason, the basic principles of these two methods are important in order to basically explain the use and purpose of the bioresonance device. Bioresonance is the resonance of the acupuncture system (acupuncture meridians) in the body with the bioenergy (frequency) of the homeopathic preparation (or the bioactive substance placed in the device) placed at the entrance of the device without using any acupuncture needle or any other acupuncture method. The function of the device (like a radio) consists of transmitting the frequencies known to be emitted by the substance-specific substance to its surroundings to the body side. The aim here is to try to change the meridian system/energy circulation in the body (which can also be called electronic homeopathy and as we know from homeopathy) by using the energetic properties of substances. Experience gained over time, it has been thought that calling this method as the stimulation of bioenergy is a more accurate definition than all other names. In this review, it is aimed to explain the working principle, features, differences, usage areas and studies in the literature of this treatment method
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Anadolu Tıbbı Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/anadolutibbi/issue/73515/1209196
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2790890
