Makale Başlığı: Yield and nut characteristics of some foreign almond cultivars in Gaziantep ecology
Özet: Aims: In this study, yield and pomological properties of Texas, Nonpareil, Mandalay, Marta, Ruby, Padre, Primorski, Picantili, Desmayo Larguetta and Sonora almond cultivars which were planted on the seedling rootstocks in Gaziantep ecological conditions were tried to be determined.Methods and Results: In the study, yield per tree (kg/tree) nut weight (g), nut dimensions (length, width, height) (mm), shell thickness (mm), the kernel weight (g), kernel dimensions (length, width, height) (mm), kernel ratio (%), fat and protein ratios (%) were determined. As a result of the study, the yield per tree was ranged from 4.18 kg (Primorski) to 7.83 kg (Marta) in 2018 and 3.67 kg (Primorski) to 8.67 kg (Padre) in 2020. Average lowest nut weight was obtained from the Sonora cultivar (1.43 g and 1.52g) in the two years of the study and the highest was obtained from D. Largueta cultivar (3.17 g and 3.44 g). While the kernel weight was low in Primorski and Pikantili cultivars, it was over 1 g in Mandalay, Ruby and Sonora cultivars. In the analyses carried out in 2018, the fat content ranged from 39.20% (Ruby) to 50.82% (Primorski), and the protein ratio ranged from 17.60% (Nonpareil) to 26% (Mandalay).Conclusions: : It has been determined that Primorski cultivar is not suitable for the region due to its low yield and low kernel weight. The result of the research has also revealed that D. Larguetta cultivar should not be recommended in Gaziantep ecological conditions due to the low kernel percentage.Significance and Impact of the Study: The present study concerns the assessment of yield, nuts and kernels physical traits of ten almond cultivars recently introduced in Gaziantep ecology. The aim is to identify the best cultivars, which best adapted to the climatic conditions of favorable for the cultivation of almonds in this region. Because the characteristics of fruit species and cultivars vary according to ecology. Adaptation studies are important for high yield and quality.
Yazar isimleri: ['Safder BAYAZİT', 'Mustafa ALAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Mustafa Kemal Üniversitesi Tarım Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mkutbd/issue/71394/1098934
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2355208
