Makale Başlığı: Comparison of the Effects of Mid-Morning Snacks Prepared with Chia, Amaranth and Quinoa Seeds on Short-Term Satiety and Energy Intake
Özet: Objectives: The pseudo-cereals chia, amaranth, and quinoa have received increasing attention due to their advantageous nutritional features in recent years. However, their influence on subjective satiety and consecutive energy intake in humans is mainly unknown. The purpose of this research was to determine whether subjective food consumption and satiety during an open buffet meal were different after consuming test meals prepared with chia, amaranth, or quinoa seeds. Materials and Methods: Subjects (n=35) were given four mid-morning snacks in a randomized cross-over design. On various test days, participants received plain yogurt (CON), yogurt containing 14 g of chia (CHI), amaranth (AMA), or quinoa (QUI). After subjects were told to report visual analogue scale (VAS) scores on sensory outcomes, they were provided an ad libitum meal and their energy intake was recorded.Results: VAS scores were similar between the test meals. Area under curve data of VAS scores indicated similar hunger, satiety, prospective food consumption and amount of food that could be consumed between the study groups. On the other hand, the area under curve data of desire for sugary snacks was significantly lower in QUI in comparison to CON and CHI. Individuals in all groups had similar energy intake during ad libitum lunch. No difference was determined between chia, amaranth, and quinoa test meals. Conclusion: Iso-caloric test meals prepared with yogurt and chia, amaranth, or quinoa seeds showed similar effects on ad libitum energy intake and subjective appetite sensations. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Aslı AKYOL MUTLU', 'Cansu ÇETİN KARAKAŞ', 'Gülhan SAMUR', 'Aylin AYAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Hacettepe Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/husbfd/issue/70114/1062306
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2209891
