Makale Başlığı: Changes in some physical properties and compressive strength of European larch and Caucasian spruce woods after different incising pretreatments
Özet: Different incising pretreatments are technological processes to improve the permeability of refractory wood species. In recent years, there has been an increasing interest in determining the changes in the physical and mechanical properties of wood as a result of different incising processes. Because it is important that the physical properties of wood do not change negatively and there is no weakening in the mechanical properties after all incising pretreatments. Therefore, the effects of mechanical, biological, and laser incising pretreatments on some physical properties and compressive strength parallel to the grain of  Picea orientalis L. and Larix decidua Mill. sapwood samples were studied. The weight losses occurred in the samples, density, compressive strength parallel to the grain, and volumetric shrinkage and swelling values of the woods were evaluated after every pretreatment. According to the results, the highest weight losses (spruce: 9.82%; larch: 8.47%)  were observed in the bioincised samples, and the lowest weight losses (spruce: 1.12%: larch: 1.66%) occurred in the mechanically incised samples in both spruce and larch sapwoods. The volumetric shrinkage and swelling in larch decreased laser incising pretreatments, however, there was no significant difference among all incising pretreatment groups in spruce. The density decreased laser incised larch wood samples, however, no statistically significant change in the spruce wood samples was observed in all incising pretreatments. On the other hand, the compressive strength parallel to the grain in spruce and larch wood samples decreased after laser incising and bioincising. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Davut BAKIR']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Artvin Çoruh Üniversitesi Orman Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://ofd.artvin.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/73139/1179285
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2667448
