Makale Başlığı: The Resistance of Some Tomato Lines against Tomato Spotted Wild Virus, Tomato Yellow Leaf Curl Virus and Root Knot Nematodes (Meloidogyne spp.) by Molecular Markers
Özet: In this study, it was attempted to determine the resistance of different tomato lines to tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV), tomato yellow leaf curl virus (TYLCV), and root-origin nematodes (Meloidogyne spp.) using molecular DNA markers. For this purpose, out of 96 different tomato lines to be tested, Sw5-2 for resistance to tomato spotted wilt ripening virus (TSWV), Ty3P6-25 for resistance to tomato yellow leaf curl virus (TYLCV) and the DNA marker Mi23, which determines resistance to root-knot nematodes (Meloidogyne spp.), were used by PCR. In this study, Ty3P6-25, the marker that determines resistance to TYLCV, was found to be susceptible (rr) in 34 tomato lines, heterozygous resistant (Rr) in 56 tomato lines, and homozygous resistant (RR) in 4 tomato lines. In addition, no results were obtained in 2 tomato lines. Marker Sw5-2, which determines resistance to TSWV, was found to be homozygous susceptible (rr) in 57 tomato lines, heterozygous resistant (Rr) in 27 tomato lines, and homozygous resistant (RR) in 5 tomato lines. No results were obtained in 7 tomato lines. For the marker (Mi23) that determines resistance to root-knot nematodes (Meloidogyne spp.), 44 tomato lines were found to be homozygous susceptible (rr), 11 tomato lines were heterozygous resistant (Rr), and 35 tomato lines were homozygous resistant. No results were obtained for 6 tomato lines. It was concluded that the DNA molecular markers used are useful in determining resistance responses to TSWV, TYLCV and Meloidogyne spp. in tomato and can give reproducible and reliable results in a short time.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hüseyin BASIM', 'Osman KANDİL', 'Ramazan İĞDİRLİ', 'Mehmet MOR']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Black Sea Journal of Agriculture
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bsagriculture/issue/67889/1161306
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2593566
