Makale Başlığı: An LSTM-Based Approach with Acoustic Features for Speech Emotion Recognition
Özet: Speech emotion recognition is an area of active human-computer interaction that can recognize human emotions from speech signals in real time. The recognition task in this area is an example of a difficult classification due to the complexity of emotions. An effective classification process depends on high-level deep features and an appropriate deep learning model. There are many classification studies in the field of speech emotion recognition. In these studies, many different models and combinations of features have been proposed to accurately extract emotions from speech data. In this article, a system for speech emotion recognition task is proposed. In this system, a long-short-term memory-based deep learning model is proposed for speech emotion recognition. The proposed system consists of four stages: preprocessing, feature extraction, feature combination, long-short-term memory and classification. In the proposed system, the clipping and pre-emphasis pre-processes are applied to the speech data first. After these processes, Mel Frequency Kepstrum Coefficients, Zero Crossing Ratio and Root Mean Square Energy acoustic properties are extracted from the obtained speech data and combined. In addition to the spatial information of these combined features, their acoustic changes over time are learned with the proposed long-short-term memory and a deep neural network model associated with it. Finally, the information learned is classified into 8 different emotions by the softmax activation function. The proposed system has been tested on a dataset using RAVDESS and TESS datasets together. Accuracies of 99.87%, 85.14% and 88.92% were measured in training, validation and test results, respectively. The results were compared in terms of the accuracies in the recent studies and the success of the proposed system was revealed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kenan DONUK', 'Davut HANBAY']
Yayın Yılı: 7 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Bilgisayar Bilimleri
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bbd/issue/73741/1113379
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2414419
