Makale Başlığı: A Cross-Cultural Scale Adaptation Study; Self-Efficacy Regarding Vaginal Birth Scale
Özet: Aim: This research was conducted to adapt the Self-Efficacy Regarding Vaginal Birth Scale to Turkish culture and to provide a measurement tool for Turkish society.Methods: The research was conducted in a methodological type in a public hospital between October 2019 and December 2019. The study was conducted with 223 women who met the inclusion criteria. Personal information form and Turkish version of the Self-Efficacy Regarding Vaginal Birth Scale were used as data collection tools in the study.Results: The mean age of the participants in the study was 24.2 ± 4.1 years. The mean gestational week of the pregnant women is 30.1±8.2, and 61.9% of them are in the third trimester. It was determined that 83% of the pregnant women received information about the birth, and the source of the information was the health personnel with 61.4%. It was determined that 72.2% of the pregnant women preferred normal delivery. For the language validity of the Self-Efficacy Scale for Normal Birth, the translation back translation method was used, and the content validity was analyzed with the opinions of the field experts. The scale was applied to the main sample group after the pre-application. With item analysis, it was determined that the scale items served their purpose. The single factor structure of the scale was determined by explanatory factor analysis and it was seen that the scale factor loads were in the appropriate range. The single-factor structure of the scale was confirmed by confirmatory factor analysis. In the reliability analysis, it was determined that the Cronbachalfa coefficient of the scale was 0.98 and the test-retest reliability was 0.98.Conclusion: It has been determined that the Self-Efficacy Regarding Vaginal Birth Scale is a valid and reliable measurement tool for Turkish society.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşenur KAHRAMAN', 'Özgür ALPARSLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: TOGÜ Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/togusagbilderg/issue/72864/1099215
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2356547
