Makale Başlığı: An investigation on the musical structure of Sevdalinka, a special genre of Bosnian music
Özet: The aim of this study is to determine the musical structure of the song ‘’ Sevdalinka’’, whose brotherhood with Turkish society dates back 700 years, which is the basic element of the musical structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina and have a special genre in Balkan music. Starting from this point; Sevdalinka songs randomly selected by the researcher were examined and interpreted. The songs were analyzed in two dimensions. First dimension is to determine the musical characteristics of the songs. These are; tone, maqam, measure, note values, register and the musical terms. The second dimension is to study the lyrics. In this dimension, the subject that the song wants to describe, the words and sentences used in the song were examined and comments were made in the light of the data obtained. Sevdalinka are artistic products of Bosnian culture. Bosnian people used the sevdelinkas as a means of conveying their feelings. Sevdalinkas carry both traditional and popular culture elements. Over time, it changed with the influence of European societies and showed a tendency to westernize musically. In addition, it preserved its traditional features and included Turkish music maqams and methods. Sevdalinkas; They are songs of love and longing, which are included in both weddings and funerals of Bosnian people. In the study, it has been concluded that Sevdalinka's are in communication and interaction with the Turkish music structure, they contain both eastern and western cultures in their musical structure, the accordion is used as the main instrument, ornate and trill notes are used, as the subject; that the themes of love, longing, regret, prayer to Allah, homeland are mainly included.
Yazar isimleri: ['Taner ULUÇAY']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1188766
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2707155
