Makale Başlığı: Comparison of Resting and Fatigue Visual-Motor Reaction Time of Turkey Men's Deaf National Basketball Players
Özet: Reaction time has a very important place, when considering the game speed of basketball. However, there are a limited number of studies on the reaction times of deaf olympic basketball players. Studies on reaction times in fatigue are even less. The aim of the study was to investigate the visual-motor reaction time of Turkey men's deaf national basketball players at rest and fatigue. Thirteen basketball players (Olympic level deaf athletes) (25.92±4.9 years, height 184.15± 10.22 cm; body weight 88.53± 20.29 kg) participated in the study. Subjects were administered a standard warm-up and then a visual-motor reaction test on the fit-light reaction device (Fitlight Sports Corp., Canada) was performed on the dominant hand and then the other hand 3 times and the best score was taken. Following that yo-yo intermittent recovery test level1 (Yo-Yo IR1) was performed by subjects to create fatigue. When participants completed Yo-Yo IR1, they immediately started the visual-motor reaction test again in fatigue. Average reaction time was recorded by the fitlight device automatically. The SPSS package program was used in the analysis of the data. Paired sample t-test was used in paired comparisons. When the pre-test and post-test scores of the dominant and non-dominant hands were compared, no significant difference was found (between rest and fatigue). Also, there were no significant differences between dominant and non-dominant hands in rest and fatigue. According to the results, it can be said that the visual reaction times of deaf players vary according to their individual characteristics and training levels.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ali TATLICI', 'Ömer ÖZER']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Spor Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tsbd/issue/73310/1187988
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2703947
