Makale Başlığı: A high-level and adaptive metaheuristic selection algorithm for solving high  dimensional bound-constrained continuous optimization problems
Özet: Metaheuristic algorithms are used to find sufficiently good solutions for the optimization problems that  are not solvable in a polynomial time. Although metaheuristics offer a general problem-solving framework and can  be applied to various types of optimization problems, their performances depend heavily on the problem to be solved.  Thus, hybrid metaheuristics are used to combine strong parts of different algorithms. In this study, a novel adaptive  metaheuristic selection algorithm is proposed for solving bound-constrained continuous optimization problems. The  developed method hybridizes artificial bee colony, differential evolution, and particle swarm optimization at a high level  where each algorithm works independently from each other. As a main contribution to the literature, adaptive selection  at metaheuristic level among these three algorithms is achieved by using a rank-based credit assignment and UCB1  multiarmed bandit selection. The effectiveness of the developed algorithm has been evaluated on CEC'17 standard  benchmark functions. The obtained numerical results indicate that the proposed algorithm outperforms the individual  metaheuristics on which it is built and is more effective especially in high dimensional problems. It is also shown that  the proposed algorithm is highly comparable with the related algorithms in the literature. Lastly, a case study that  achieves adaptive selection of two good-performing algorithms  namely, covariance matrix adaptation evolution strategy  and JADE  for the benchmark used in this study supports the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Mayıs 2020
Dergi ismi: Turkish Journal of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tbtkelektrik/issue/54388/739714
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1110724
