Makale Başlığı: Main Problems and Limitations of Digitalization of Folklore
Özet: Although the views on the acceptance of the virtual environment and especially of social media as thearea where existing folkloric experiences are reproduced, kept alive and accessible to large masses and where the new folkloric forms are being created still predominates folkloric literature, these arguments are needed to be questioned and their political and economic infrastructure needs to be further investigated by adressing the economic concerns and objectives behind. The main reason behind this is that the mainstream social media, which is based on commercial foundations have commercial structures that are far from the public commons. The most important element that makes the economic-political infrastructure of social media is prosumer surveillance. While the concept of prosumer expresses the breaking down and intertwining of the boundaries between the producer and the consumer, it also enables social media users to be defined as prosumers since social media users are both producers and consumers of the contents. Targeted advertising system which is dominated by producer surveillance and built upon the digital labor of the producer, causes visibility and attracts attention of social media which turns it into a purchasable phenomenon. Besides, the interaction with ecosystems created by prosumers shows us that visibility and attention in social media is misleading and problematic. These determinations indicates that the visibility in social media is negatively affected by not only through the personal content but also through the folkloric contents in social media. Apart from this, the competition of folkloric content in social media with contents representing the dominant culture is based on inequality, is an important problem that threatens the existence of folkloric content in social media. Based on these determinations, the research aims at discussing the visibility and presence of folkloric content, rather than questioning whether it is a folkloric production tool with a critical approach that tests the contributions of social media to participatory culture and participation. In this respect, in order to analyze the commercial infrastructure of social media, the targeted advertising system created by social media companies will be mentioned and the transformation of its visibility and shift becoming a buyable phenomenon is being emphasized in this research. In order to discuss the possibilities of participatory culture attributes to social media built on media targeted advertising system, the discussion is carried out by including the prominent arguments within the literature. While the claims that maintain weight in the literature emphasize is about social media allowing participation, they ignore the economic-political infrastructure of social media based on commercial foundations. For this reason, the validity of participatory culture claims associated with social media, the economic-political infrastructure of commercialmedia, the interaction ecosystems created on Instagram and Twitter, the visibility of folkloric and dominantculture content on Instagram, Twitter and YouTube, internet search engines and application markets that allow downloading application to smart devices are further investigated. The results revealed that the opportunities and possibilities of participatory culture in virtual environment is extremely difficult. In particular, it is concluded that the economic-political infrastructure of social media, which does not allow participatory culture, directly affects the visibility and attractiveness of folkloric contents and puts it in an environment of unequal competition with the contents representing the dominant culture. Against these problems, it is suggested that a new generation participatory internet structure is being needed, that is away from commercial purposes, concerns and visibility being based on inequality. Whilst not denying the validity and reliability of netnographic research in the field of folklore, it is believed that research should be conducted by focusing on the threats and dangers in question.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fuat Boğaç EVREN', 'İzlem KANLI']
Yayın Yılı: 11 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Milli Folklor
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/millifolklor/issue/73825/1087825
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2309641
