Makale Başlığı: Menakıb-ı Evliya (Buyruk), Rıza Yıldırım, İstanbul: Yapı Kredi Yayınları, 2020.
Özet: It can be said that the field of Shiism is a very productive field for research and examination. It is known that the center of Shiite thought was formed within the framework of Imam Ali. Shiite sects have different opinions on the issue of Imamate. For this reason, in Shiite thought; Zaydis believing in the imamate of Zayd, Ismailis believing in the imamate of Ismail, and other sects adopting the centrality of imamate also emerged. In this study, Alevi and Bektashi Shiism are examined. In the review, a summary of the content of the book was presented by reading Rıza Yıldırım's Menâkıb-ı Evliyâ (Buyruk). While reviewing the book here, it is not possible to talk about everything in the book, since the book consists of 567 pages. Therefore, the content of the book is briefly explained here, starting with a short biography and scientific life of the author. The book consists of an introduction and five chapters. In the introduction part of the book, the definition of Buyruk, the written heritage of Alevis and academic studies in this field are discussed by the author. The first part is titled "Study About Menâkıb-ı Evliya", the second part is titled "Historical and Social Background" and its sub-titles are: "Historical Background", which describes the subjects of Turkish Mongolian order, Turkmen Safavid structure and the Qizilbash Alevi Order as a military class. ”. In the third part of the book, the author deals with Buyruk as content, work and source. The fourth chapter contains technical information about the manuscripts related to Alevism that have been verified in the book. In the last part, it is an authenticated text verified from manuscripts collected by the author.
Yazar isimleri: ['Rami İbrahim MAHMUT']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Külliye
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aybukulliye/issue/72859/1153592
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2573808
