Makale Başlığı: THE TRADITION OF ALMSGİVİNG IN THE TİMES OF DISEASE AND DEATH IN THE PERIOD OF THE EYYUBIDS, BAHRİ MEMLUKS, AND TIMUR
Özet: Islam has brought some rules and innovations to eradicate poverty. Turks adopted the rules in a short time. Because there have always been values such as helping and sharing in the nature of Turkish social structure.One of the innovations that Islam brought as a solution to poverty is almsgiving. This innovation was compatible with the tradition of mal ületmek (sharing of goods) in Turkish culture. Kaşgarlı Mahmud and Yusuf Has Hacib expressed financial aid to the poor with that phrase and always emphasized generosity. Yusuf Has Hacib mentiones about situations that require giving alms. The sadaqa is mentioned in the stories of Dede Korkut as well. The Oghuzes give alms for the atonement of the head and eye and for the fulfillment of wishes.Turkish elits were quite eager to give alms whenever they saw fit. However It was generally applied in celebrations such as birth and circumcision, in holy months, religious eıds and days, in times of sickness, healing and mourning, to be purified and protected from sins. In addition some rulers freed slaves and jariyas (female slaves), abolished or reduced taxes, paid the debtor's debt, and released the prisoners. Muslim Turkish dynasties also sent large quantities of alms to the poor of Mecca and Medina and were voluntarily undertaking the maintenance of pilgrimage routes, the safety of pilgrims, and the provision of food and water to the pilgrims.The Ayyubid, Mamluk, and Timurid periods are among the most vivid periods when the tradition of distributing alms during illness and mourning was in effect. Selahaddin Ayyubi, the founder of the Ayyubid State, his brother al-Adil, al-Melikü'z-Zahir, al-Malik al-Mansur Nasıreddin Muhammed who is the ruler of Hama, El-Melikü'l Muazzam Şerefüddin Îsâ b. al-Adil, el-Eşref Musa b. Adil are who practiced this tradition. Mamluk sultans such as Melikü'z-Zâhir Baybars, Kalavun and Kalavun family and amirs preserved this tradition as well. When the Mamluk sultans and amirs recovered, they were congratulated by their amirs and other statesmen, the festivities were held in Cairo and Egypt, and robes of honour were distributed.Muslim Turkish statesmen gave alms, slaughtered sacrifices, and gave food for for the soul of the dead. Apart from the alms, expiations were prepared for the looting of the funeral by the people in return for alms.Timur kept the traditions metioned above in the mourning of his family members. Timur mourned the deaths of his son Cihangir, his daughter Tagayşah Aka Beg, his wife Dilşad Aga, his older sister Kutluk Türkan and his father's wife Kadak Hatun, and gave food and alms to the poor for their souls. Seljuk sultans and Ilkhanids also practiced this tradition fort he soul of death. They also performed these customs on the anniversary of the death like the anniversary of Timur and Şehzade Muhammed Sultan.In this study, we will have addressed almsgiving in times of sickness and mourning in Turkish dynasties on the basis of the Ayyubids, Bahri Mamluks and Timurid periods.
Yazar isimleri: ['Tülay YÜREKLİ']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Genel Türk Tarihi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gttad/issue/71320/1099114
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2356048
