Makale Başlığı: Determining The Career Planning Behaviors of Students with Undergraduate Tourism Education: A Comparative Example of AKU And SUBU
Özet: Businesses in the tourism industry need trained personnel in order to benefit from the workforce at the desired level. On the other hand, the fact that students studying in the field of tourism work outside this industry prevents meeting the need for qualified workforce. For this reason, determining the career perceptions of tourism education students towards this industry plays an extremely important role in bringing educated employees to the tourism industry. In this direction, the aim of the research is to determine the career planning behaviors of Sakarya University of Applied Sciences (SUBÜ) and Afyon Kocatepe University (AKU) tourism faculty students and whether these behaviors differ according to the university they study at. Questionnaire technique, one of the quantitative data collection methods, was used in the research and a total of 486 questionnaires were obtained. The data obtained from the research were analyzed with the SPSS statistical package program. In the analyzes made, a significant difference was found among the students receiving tourism education in terms of working conditions and career and education perceptions in tourism, according to the city where they were educated. It is thought that this study is an important evaluation in terms of directing the studies of tourism education institutions towards student expectations and future plans. Improving working conditions and increasing career alternatives will make it easier for the sector to reach students who have received tourism education. In addition, in this study, the application was made in two different cities and it was emphasized what differences the proximity of cities to different tourism destinations creates in the thoughts of students about career in tourism.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fulya BAĞDAT', 'Yusuf YERLI', 'Betül YILMAZER', 'Ömer SARAÇ', 'Huseyin PAMUKCU']
Yayın Yılı: 14 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of New Tourism Trends
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/joinntt/issue/73837/1172131
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2637362
