Makale Başlığı: Sustainibility In Interpersonal Relations, Social Media and Metaverse
Özet: As a social being, human beings need to communicate, interact and be in some relationships with other people. The two most important types of relationships are friendship relationships and romantic relationships. The individual wants every relationship started in social life to continue, and for this they make an effort in the ways required by the relationship. Together with social media platforms, the way these two relationship styles are both experienced and maintained has changed. Social media, which is beneficial for the sustainability of some relationships, can cause some relationships to end. Social media platforms will soon evolve into virtual reality environments, metaverse, and the way of socializing in virtual networks will also change dimensions. Metaverse will allow its users to work together, play games and socialize in three-dimensional virtual environments. Although only some digital gaming platforms offer the metaverse experience at the moment, the fact that Mark Zuckerberg, the owner of Facebook, has changed the name of his company to "Meta" and other important social media companies have started to make heavy investments to adapt their platforms to this metaverse, this is an indication of a radical change for social media. Thus, new forms of sustainability in friendships and romantic relationships and perhaps new sustainability behaviors will emerge. In this context, in this study, within the framework of the concept of sustainability in interpersonal relations, the forms of relationships that will be experienced in the metaverse, which are experienced in social media and are the point to be reached one step further, will be discussed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Esra CİZMECİ ÜMİT']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Stratejik ve Sosyal Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sisad/issue/73546/1109592
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2399699
