Makale Başlığı: The Anti-Hero on Büchner to Koltès: A Comparative Look at Woyzeck and Roberto Zucco
Özet: Woyzeck, written in 1836, is an unfinished play by Georg Büchner, the plot of which is based on the real-life story of Johann Christian Woyzeck, who killed the woman he lived with. His case occupied the German press for a long period. After an 18-month trial,  he  suffered  a  public  beheading  in  1824.  Roberto  Zucco,  written  in  1988,  was  the  last  play  by  Bernard-Marie  Koltès.  Its  plot  was  inspired  by  the  real-life  story  of  Roberto  Succo  ,  who  stabbed  his  mother  and  strangled  his  father  to  death.  Succo committed serial murders in Italy and France in the 1980s; he occupied the French press, particularly in 1986, and finally committed  suicide  in  1988  by  suffocating  himself  with  a  plastic  bag.  This  study  examines  Woyzeck  and  Roberto  Zucco, written approximately 150 years apart, by considering their structural parallels and how the anti-hero phenomenon altered depending on the zeitgeist. Based on concepts of classical Greek tragedy, including hamartia, anagnorisis, peripeteia, and pathos, this paper considers the tragic hero and anti-hero prototypes in these plays. The author also reviews the qualities of the tragic hero figure diminished or preserved through the reversal process of presenting the anti-hero. As a side theme of this study, the paper elaborates on the transition process from anti-hero to anti-character, particularly in modernist drama. Finally, the article contemplates whether the rules of classical tragedy work in this context and examines the tragic essence in the two plays by considering the anti-hero in the light of the figure of the scapegoat—pharmakos in Greek.
Yazar isimleri: ['Melike Saba AKIM']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Alman Dili ve Edebiyatı Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iuaded/issue/70402/1090268
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2319748
