Makale Başlığı: Persian Defense System in the Light of Archaeological Surveys of the Troas Region
Özet: Our archaeological surveys in the Troas region has discovered several fortified hilltop settlements with commanding views over the ancient highways of the Troad. Almost all these hilltop settlements were located along the river valleys that cut across the central and eastern Troad, and virtually all of them were in visual contact with each other. Pottery recovered from within and around these forts suggests that they were built in the sixth century B.C. and largely abandoned by the beginning of the Hellenistic period. In other words, they coincide with Persian rule in the Troad and were probably intended as Persian outposts linked to regional satrapal capital at Daskyleion.These fortified hilltop settlements were strategically located in the river valleys of the Granicus, Aesepus, Scamandrus, and Rhodius, as well as on hills overlook ing narrow passes. Apart from the fort overlooking the Gulf of Adramytteion that Xerxes and his army would have passed on their way to the Hellespont, we lo cated an important fortress that guarded the route from Zeleia to the Granicus plain. The Persians must have crossed this pass on their way to confront Alexander in 334 B.C.E. The siting of these Troad strongholds conforms to the defensive Persian military strategy followed elsewhere in western Asia Minor, wherein they preferred inland rather than coastal sites. Most of these forts have never before been identified.These fortified hilltop settlements were strategically located in the river valleys of the Granicus, Aesepus, Scamandrus, and Rhodius, as well as on hills overlook ing narrow passes. Apart from the fort overlooking the Gulf of Adramytteion that Xerxes and his army would have passed on their way to the Hellespont, we lo cated an important fortress that guarded the route from Zeleia to the Granicus plain. The Persians must have crossed this pass on their way to confront Alexander in 334 B.C.E. The siting of these Troad strongholds conforms to the defensive Persian military strategy followed elsewhere in western Asia Minor, wherein they preferred inland rather than coastal sites. Most of these forts have never before been identified.
Yazar isimleri: ['Reyhan KORPE']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: OANNES - Uluslararası Eskiçağ Tarihi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/oannes/issue/72619/1149549
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2560421
