Makale Başlığı: AN EVALUATION OF ANCIENT HISTORY WRITING THROUGH TWO SECTIONS OF SÜLEYMAN HÜSNÜ PASHA’S TARİH-İ ÂLEM (1876)
Özet: Some reforms were carried out in the Ottoman Empire in the 19th century, and naturally these reforms had impacts in the field of education. For example, the change in the understanding of history began to bear fruit in the field of history education after the second half of the 19th century. In this context, a course entitled General History was included in the curriculum of secondary and higher education institutions. The content of this course was not only limited to the history of Islam and the Ottoman Empire, but also took the form of a world history that undertook to deal with the histories of different geographies and nations. In this period, textbooks began to be prepared in accordance with the new curriculum. One of them is Tarih-i Alem (History of the World), which was prepared by Süleyman Hüsnü Pasha to be taught in the second year of military high schools. Published in 1876, the book is among the first general history textbooks written in the Ottoman Empire. The content of the book is restricted only to ancient history. Old and new methods, traditional and modern understanding of history and narratives, Eastern and Western sources and historical approaches are all blended in the History of the World. In this study, the content, format and method of Tarih-i Âlem will be analysed, and it will be examined why a standard was not (or could not be) applied in the method and in the selection of the subject and content. For this purpose, two sections with different traditions of historiography were chosen as examples. One of them is the Ezmine-i Evveliye section, where understandings of traditional history and sacred history is represented, and the other is the Asya-yı Suğra section from the chapter entitled Ezmine-i Esâtiriye, which is closer to the modern understanding of history. The transliteration of both parts in the Latin alphabet is given in the appendices section.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 26 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Selçuk Üniversitesi Türkiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sutad/issue/72322/1163269
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2601391
