Makale Başlığı: Evaluating Students’ Satisfaction with Their University and City: A Case in Turkey
Özet: University satisfaction is not limited to academic processes, pedagogical interactions, or on-campus experiences. The city environment inwhich students live outside the university can also affect students’ satisfaction levels. This research aims to define the city and universitysatisfaction levels of students enrolled in a state university in Turkey, and to determine the relationship between students’ city and universitysatisfaction levels. The research was designed with a descriptive and relational design within the scope of quantitative research methods,and the sample consists of 1071 university students. A significant difference was found between city and university satisfaction and gender,education level, size of the family residence, and geographical region. The research concluded that city satisfaction is a significant variablein explaining university satisfaction. As students’ city satisfaction increases, university satisfaction also increases. City satisfaction explains33% of the total variance in university satisfaction. Services and facilities that will increase university students’ city satisfaction positivelyaffect university satisfaction. This result shows that the city and the university have complementary qualities. At the same time, the resultsshow that university satisfaction of students cannot be reduced to pedagogical and academic activities and on-campus experiences. In thiscontext, it is possible that the university satisfaction level of the young people who study in a city is high, where the level of city satisfactionis high in terms of basic needs, social and cultural interactions, feeling of safety, entertainment opportunities, sports activities, adequatetransportation, and travel services.
Yazar isimleri: ['Çağdaş Ümit YAZGAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Yükseköğretim ve Bilim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/higheredusci/issue/72432/1118959
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2437671
