Makale Başlığı: Comparison of predictive scoring systems in patients hospitalized in the internal medicine intensive care unit
Özet: Aim: Various scoring systems have been developed to predict mortality, disease severity, and length of stay of patients in intensive care units. It is important to demonstrate the validity of these scores in the society in which they are used. This study aims to evaluate the effects of The Acute Physiologic and Chronic Evaluation (APACHE)-II, APACHE-IV, The Simplified Acute Physiologic Score (SAPS), and Mortality Prediction Model (MPM0) scores on mortality in the internal medicine intensive care unit. Material and Method: The patients who were followed up in an internal medicine intensive care unit between June 2021 and December 2021 in a tertiary hospital in Turkey were included in this study. The scores were calculated at the time they were admitted to the intensive care unit. 115 patients who were followed up in the internal medicine intensive care unit for 6 months were included. The patients were divided into two groups alive or deceased. 52 (45.2%) patients in the survivor group and 63 (54.8%) patients in the deceased group were included. Patients received no study-related medical intervention. Results: When all four prognostic scoring systems were analyzed according to the median cut-off values, rising values ​​were related to mortality with statistical significance (p<0.001). Hosmer-Lemeshow (HL) test p values in the univariate logistic regression model (higher than the others) showed that the APACHE IV had a better calibration than the other scores. However, the H-L p values of all scores were above 0.05.Conclusion: Although all scoring systems are good predictors of mortality in patients in internal medicine intensive care units, none of them is superior to the other for mortality prediction.
Yazar isimleri: ['Düriye Sıla KARAGÖZ ÖZEN', 'Abdulcelil KAYABAŞ', 'Mehmet Derya DEMİRAG']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Health Sciences and Medicine
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jhsm/issue/73169/1176261
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2654628
