Makale Başlığı: DETERMINATION OF THE PROVISION IN FAVOR OF THE WORKER (ON DECISION OF SUPREME COURT 23.03.2021, 2021/2913-2021/6633)
Özet: Due to the imperative effect of the collective bargaining agreement, the provisions of the employment agreement that are contrary to the collective labour agreement are replaced by the provisions of the collective labour agreement. There are two exceptions to the imperative effect. The principle called favourability is one of this exceptions. Pursuant to this principle, if the labour contract and the collective labour agreement contain contradictory provisions, the provisions of the labour contract in favor of the worker shall be applicable. Therefore, in terms of the provisions of the labour contract in favor of the worker, the collective labour contract does not have an imperative effect. However, it is not always easy to determine the provision in favor of the worker. For this reason, different views have emerged in terms of the methods of determining the provision in favor of the worker in both the Turkish Law and the German Law. These methods are divided into three: comparing the provisions one by one, comparing them by grouping and comparing the contracts as a whole. The majority opinion in both Turkish Law and German Law is that the provisions should be grouped and compared. The Supreme Court has given different decisions at different times. Finally, in the text of eliminating the differences in case law published after the merger of the chambers of the Court, it was stated that the provisions regarding wages should be addressed collectively. In its recent decision, which we took as the basis of our study, the Supreme Court evaluated the wage-related provisions by grouping them. In this study, by examining the methods that can be used in determining the provision in favor of the worker, our opinion that the contracts should be evaluated as a whole will be justified. While making this evaluation, the situation in German Law will also be conveyed.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İstanbul Medeniyet Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/imhfd/issue/72794/1182064
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2679348
