Makale Başlığı: Impact of Climate Change Process on Sustainable and Safe Food Production
Özet: The natural cycle of the world is affected by the human activities that started after the industrial revolution and have continued to increase. Human impacts, which first started to show themselves with the consumption of fossil fuels, reached high levels with mobility, nutrition activities, and industrialization due to globalization. Climate change is caused by these effects and alters the balance of the atmosphere's composition. The changing climate has a series of negative implications on which one of the most significant is in food production. Climate change is the main factor affecting sustainability in food production. Sustainability appears to be possible, in the first place, by changing production technologies and raising species suitable for the changing climate instead of local products. Furthermore, many applications are developed in order to suit the needs of civilizations without disrupting food production. Chemicals for protection and growth support, as well as the use of genetic modification techniques in seeds, are among these applications. However, there is significant lack of information and doubts in the consumer about the nature, extent and size of these applications used in production. Despite these negativities, food production will be possible today and in future. However, this situation creates negative perception in the consumer who understands the importance of safe food, and concerns are increasing by days. The implications of production applications employed to keep up with changing climatic circumstances on the sustainability of plant and animal production, as well as their influence on consumer knowledge of food safety, were evaluated in this study.
Yazar isimleri: ['Selin Özge DİNÇ', 'İbrahim Ender KÜNİLİ', 'Fatma ÇOLAKOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Bursa Uludağ Üniversitesi Ziraat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bursauludagziraat/issue/73469/994886
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1972303
