Makale Başlığı: Ornament Program And Style Features Of Nakşidil Valide Sultan Tomb
Özet: Although the Baroque style, which was the first harbinger of the change in architectural forms, was used reluctantly at first, it left its mark on a period of Ottoman Art with the changes reflecting the taste and knowledge of the architects under the name of “Turkish Baroque”. Rococo, which is considered together with Baroque art, existed before the Baroque in the Ottoman Empire and remained as a style in which the decorative taste of the west was transferred. Following Baroque and Rococo, Empire Art distinguished itself from the other two styles in Ottoman architecture with its façade installation and decorations and became one of the three major styles in which the politics of the period were transferred to art.The architecture and taste of art in the westernization period of the Ottoman Empire Was felt felt in various styles in Twenty-eight is the formal form tombs during its existence in Istanbul. The Nakşidil Vâlide Sultan Tomb, which is the subject of the article, located in the Fatih district of Istanbul, is one of the architectural examples of this period. The tomb, which is in a verse, has a cylindrical body divided by sixteen pilasters. The tomb, which has a portico entrance, draws attention with its rich kalemişi ornaments as well as its architectural features such as Baroque façade installation, low and ribbed dome, and lead covered pulley.In this study, rather than the architecture of the tomb, which is an early example of the transition from Baroque to the Empire style, the hand-drawn ornament program and stylistic features that have not been researched before are emphasized. While evaluating the decorations of the building, which have been examined without ignoring the restoration processes; the colours used, the motifs that make up the composition, and the styles reflecting the use of these motifs have been supported by detailed photographs and drawings. In the meanwhile, the stylistic character of the general decoration of the building was tried to be revealed by including the marble decorations of the building. The composition repertoire of the Nakşidil Tomb begins with the Empire ornaments carved on the marble material reflected on its Baroque exterior façade, and continues by turning into kalemişi ornaments on the portico vault, the main dome and the second-floor windows. The morphological change of the Baroque motifs seen in the kalemişi ornaments appears as the effect of the Empire period. The kalemişi ornamentation of the tomb is important in terms of showing the transfer of the Baroque, Rococo and Empire styles seen in the Ottoman art to the tomb architecture a conscious eclecticism, and at the same time being a successful example of the Empire decoration applied in the early period.
Yazar isimleri: ['Esra HALICI']
Yayın Yılı: 9 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Sanat Tarihi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/std/issue/71232/981195
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1918340
