Makale Başlığı: INFLUENCE OF INVESTOR AWARENESS ON PERFORMANCE OF REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS IN KENYA
Özet: Purpose- The performance of the listed REITs has not been as expected and efforts by REIT managers to issue more real estate securities havebeen slow. This posed the concern of whether the unexpected performance of REITs in Kenya was due to external factors, such as investorawareness, which is not under the control of the investment market. Thus the study sought to examine how investor awareness influencesperformance of REITs in Kenya.Methodology- Predictive correlational research design was employed while target population comprised of Fund Managers, Stock Brokers andInvestment Banks and Property Developers. Structural Equation Modelling was used to test the hypothesized relationships at 5% significance level.Findings-The results indicate that investor awareness have no significant influence on performance of REITs in Kenya. Majority of the respondentsagreed that they were knowledgeable about Kenya's real estate market, and their membership in the REITs Association of Kenya has providedinsightful market research and databases. Such investors can access with ease reports of the REITs issuing firm. Further, although investors usuallyfollow and update themselves on the REITs markets through the online platform, such awareness does not influence the level of performance ofREITs in Kenya.Conclusions- It can be concluded that although efforts have been put in place to ensure investors' awareness of real estate securities, such effortshave not boosted the uptake of REITs among investors. Investor awareness efforts employed by Capital Markets Authority in conjunction with theREITs Association of Kenya are not likely to enhance the performance of REITs in Kenya. The results indicate that REITs uptake has not attained acritical mass necessary to create liquidity in the capital market. Based on the findings, there is minimal publicity campaigns carried on by theCapital Markets Authority to sensitize potential investors on REITs.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Business Economics and Finance
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jbef/issue/72684/1179863
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2669803
