Makale Başlığı: Tendencies of Parents to (not)Support Youth Volunteering With The Approach of Critical  Realism and “Relational Volunteering”
Özet: In most of the volunteering studies in Turkey, there is a claim that volunteering is not developed or the level of participation is low. However, there are few in-depth studies on the reasons for this, and volunteering is handled dichotomously with either a structure-centered or subject-centered approach. In this study, the concept of “relational volunteering” was developed based on the idea that volunteering should be investigated as relational or holistic. However, although both adherence to cultural values and adherence to family ties are at a high level in Turkey compared to European or Western countries, little has been studied in the literature about the role of parents or family in volunteering participation. In this context, in the study, “What are the to support or not support tendencies of parents in the participation of young people in volunteering activities in Turkey?” focusing on the question, it is aimed “to investigate the parental to support or not support tendencies of young people regarding their participation in volunteering activities and the phenomena behind these tendencies or productive structure mechanisms, with the approach of critical realism and relational sociology”. In the study, which was designed with the qualitative research method, data were collected by interviewing 30 white-collar parents with children over the age of 16, who were determined by purposive sampling in Balıkesir. The collected data were analyzed by using both the phenomenological approach and the abduction and retroduction inference methods in critical realism together. According to the data obtained; The tendencies of parents towards the participation of their children in volunteering activities are related to three (micro, meso, macro) different levels of reality. Parents are afraid or see their children's voluntary participation in NGO, religion and politics issues, as well as in NGO, community/foundation and political party environments as risky. When looking at the interactions or relationships of these levels holistically, focusing on the phenomena or productive structural mechanisms behind the fear or risk situation, the concept of “fearful or risky volunteering” has been developed to refer to situations that parents see as fear or risk. The steps to be taken should be aimed at eliminating these fear or risk situations.
Yazar isimleri: ['Abdurrahim KORKMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 11 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Sosyal ve Kültürel Araştırmalar Dergisi (SKAD)
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/skad/issue/73410/1185738
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2694815
