Makale Başlığı: An Investigation of Readiness and Burnout of Faculty Members of School of Medicine During Distance Education
Özet: The COVID-19 pandemic has undoubtedly disrupted the deep-rooted and traditional structure of medical education and accelerated the emergence of novel education methods for students and educators by preparing an online learning environment consisting of both asynchronous and synchronized distance education. Whilst a fair number of studies have been conducted on students on this subject, the educator side  appears to be partially lacking. In addition, due to the unique nature of medical education, members of medical faculty constitute the group of educators most affected by this process. This study was carried out with the aim of evaluating the burnout and readiness for online education of the said group of instructors who had been actively giving the majority of classes in laboratory and hospital environments until the pandemic period  The research was conducted with 60 academics  who were lecturers in a medical faculty and were actively teaching. “ Maslach Burnout Scale” and “ Readiness Scale for Online Learning ” were employed in the present research. “SPSS 20.00 for Windows” was utilized for data analyses. It was determined that the participants' total burnout score was 63.35±11.17, and the online learning readiness total score was 2.97±1.18. There was no statistical difference between participants' internet use and access, demographic factors and readiness (p>0.05). In the evaluation of burnout, statistical significance was found  germane to gender, professional experience, age, and place of access to the internet (p<0.05). In order for medical education to achieve its purpose online, taking into account the readiness, stress and burnout of the faculty members, providing a synchronized education environment that is not limited to online education, and identifying the needs and expectations of the involved parties when planning distance education and ensuring the necessary preparation for these, increasing the efficiency of the process. is considered necessary.
Yazar isimleri: ['Funda KOCAAY', 'Burcu KÜÇÜK BİÇER']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of  Entrepreneurship and Management Inquiries
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijemi/issue/69896/1141124
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2527733
