Makale Başlığı: Investigation of Factors Associated with Countries’ Covid-19 Disease Fatality Rates
Özet: Objective: In this study, it was aimed to investigate the factors associated with the Covid-19 disease fatality rate of countries.Methods: The research is of ecological type. In the study, the relationship between Covid-19 disease fatality rates and variables like socioeconomic state, healthy life expectancy at birth, population ages 65 and above, cardiovascular disease frequency, tobacco use frequency, vaccination rates, Human Development Index, Gender Inequality Index and Global Gender Gap Index were investigated. Mean, standard deviation, median, minimum and maximum values were used to summarize data. Pearson/Spearman correlation coefficient was used to investigate the relationships and a linear regression model was established. P<0.05 was considered statistically significant.Results: One hundred and thirty countries with no missing data were included in the study. Twelve point three percent of these countries were in low socioeconomic state. The mean fatality rate of 130 countries was 0.016±0.018. A statistically significant relationship was determined between fatality rate and all variables except tobacco use frequency (p<0.05). All the variables were included in the multiple linear regression model established for the prediction of the fatality rate. Among these variables, Global Gender Gap Index was the only variable that made a statistically significant contribution to the model. Conclusion: Considering these variables in similar epidemic disease states that may occur in the future and improving the conditions related to these variables on a global scale may be important to ensure epidemic control.
Yazar isimleri: ['Elif Nur YILDIRIM ÖZTÜRK', 'Mustafa ÖZTÜRK', 'Mehmet UYAR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Biotechnology and Strategic Health Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bshr/issue/72769/1116335
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2426451
