Makale Başlığı: Industrial Symbiosis Potential of the TR 81 Level 2 Region Forest  Products Industry and Infrastructure Capacity Availability of Indust-rial Actors
Özet: Industrial symbiosis is an intermediary structure in which companies cooperate in industrial cooperation, where the waste of one is the raw material for the other. The worldwide economic crisis, inflation, climate change and scarce resources require industries to switch to cyclical business models immediately. In this way, many applications such as waste material exchange, by-product evaluation, regulation of environmental emissions, creation of new business and sectoral opportunities, infrastructure sharing, joint service provision and reduction of natural resource consumption are realized.The focus of this study is to raise awareness for improving the infrastructure capacity of possible applications by revealing the industrial symbiosis potentials of forest products businesses in the TR 81 Level 2 region within the scope of Bartın, Karabük and Zonguldak provinces. The research was conducted to identify the industrial symbiosis potential of industries and focuses on the gains of local/regional infrastructure capacity of potential application possibility of urban and/or industrial symbiosis. To reveal these gains and to measure industrial symbiosis potential, 272 surveys were applied to the relevant stakeholders. For this measurement, i. potential of symbiotic relationship and awareness level of industrial actors ii. current situation analysis, iii. Questions were asked about infrastructure capacity suitability studies. As a result of all these studies, it has been revealed that there is a great industrial symbiosis potential in the region.
Yazar isimleri: ['Özlem YILDIZ', 'Bülent KAYGIN']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Bartın Orman Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/barofd/issue/72573/1159541
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2586190
