Makale Başlığı: SOURCE OF THE PROBLEM PERCEPTIONS OF ANADOLU HIGH SCHOOL TEACHERS REGARDING DISTANCE EDUCATION
Özet: The aim of this research is to determine the opinions of the teachers working in Anadolu High Schools towards distance education and their perceptions of the source of the problem; The aim is to reveal the situation in terms of school administration, MEB, teachers, family-students. The study was conducted in a screening design on the basis of quantitative research. The study group of the research consisted of 282 teachers in six different secondary schools in Izmir in the 2021-2022 academic year. In the creation of the data collection tool, the “Distance Teaching Problem Source Scale” developed by Toprakçı, Hepsöğütlü and Toprakçı (2021) was formed from 38 items including statements about teachers. The data collection tool was applied through the "Google Form" after the permission from the İzmir Directorate of National Education. In order to determine the distribution of the views of the teachers participating in the research, the answers given to all the items in the tool were descriptive (frequency, mean, standard deviation, minimum, maximum, median, etc.), and for comparisons (data were not normally distributed) Mann-Whitney U and Kuruskal-Wallis According to the results of the research, there was no significant difference according to gender, age and seniority in the source of problems in distance education. On the other hand, it was seen that as the average of the High School Entrance Exam Score decreased, the problem of the field of school administration increased. On the other hand, it was understood that they perceived the Ministry of National Education as the source of problems. It was observed that the majority of the teachers preferred face-to-face teaching to distance education. Based on the results of the research, the researcher included suggestions for those in practice in order to make distance education more qualified.
Yazar isimleri: ['Erdal TOPRAKCI', 'Zerrin Benal HEPSÖĞÜTLÜ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Liderlik Eğitimi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijolt/issue/72551/1166943
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2615800
