Makale Başlığı: Mirror-eye image as an exploration of existence: Marina Abramovic “the artist is present” and Rasin Arsebuk Portraits
Özet: The basic question of philosophy has been shaped on “What Being and Existence is, its purposefulness and meaning”, albeit in different ways from past to present. All these questions are the result and direction of human efforts to make sense of herself/himself and her/his environment. These questions, which are asked under the name of philosophy of being (ontology), problematize the relationship between being and essence. Martin Heidegger stated that the question of “What is being?” that is asked since Antiquity causes to cover of the “meaning of existence” and put the question of “the meaning of existence” in its center. In this sense, Heidegger problematized the truth of existence; in this direction, he especially emphasized the temporality of existence. While Heidegger emphasizes that being is temporal, he emphasizes its historicity. In other words, Heidegger states that man exists as a whole being with his past, present and future, and this temporality enables man to pass from ontic to ontological being. The eyes are the primary sense organs that enable people to perceive and relate to things and events around them. However, the eye and face are accepted as the place where the meaning of existence is reflected in many traditions. The face, and especially the eyes, is the window through which the soul, in other words, the truth, is reflected. The face/eyes are seen as small universes in which the self is reflected. In the article, two artists from different geographies are discussed, who take the face and eyes to their center and as a journey through the truth of existence. One of these artists is the Serbian-born performance artist Marina Abramovic, and in the article, her eye-centered performance,”The Artist is Present”, is examined. The other is the Turkish painter Rasin Arsebük, and it is handled through the paintings in which we encounter with faces with their giant eye-universe.
Yazar isimleri: ['Melis BOYACI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: NOSYON: Uluslararası Toplum ve Kültür Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/nosyon/issue/71049/1056014
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2184813
