Makale Başlığı: Analytical Analysis of “Najm/Nujum” Words in The Qur'an (Within the Context of the Text)
Özet: There is a coherence and correlation between the Surahs in the Qur'an and the verses that make up the Surahs. This systematic pattern is present not only in the ordering of verses and Surahs, but also in the semantic connection between sentences and passages. Therefore, each verse has a semantic role in terms of in-text context, together with other verses to which it is connected in terms of meaning. In addition, the meaning of the words used in many senses such as ummah, najm and kitab, which are widely used in the Qur'an, can be understood from the inner context of the text together with the in-text context.Najm/nujum words are used in more than one sense in The Qur'an. Accordingly, the words najm/nujum, which is a homophonic word, appears thirteen times in the Qur'an as singular in four places and as plural in nine verses. In the study, this word was examined in terms of usage science with a context-centered context within the text and these words were used in the meaning of "star" in eight places, "revelation" in three places, "stemless plant".As a result of the linguistic analysis, it has been seen that in the verses in which the words najm/nujum are used in the sense of "star", they are sometimes used together with the moon and the sun, and sometimes together with the verb "tashir/submission to Allah's order". In a place where it is used in the sense of "star", it is one of the words that make up the stereotypical expression that means "to think about how to plan and manage a situation". It is seen that, especially in ancient tafsir, where the meaning of "stemless plant" is given, it is mentioned as the subject of the verb "prostrate" together with the sun. In the passages where it means "revelation", it is mentioned in the subjects related to the descent of the Qur'anic verses in accordance with the presumption of context in syntactics.As a result of the above determinations; considering that the najm/nujum words in the Qur'an are generally understood as "stars" without paying attention to the in-text context, it is hoped that research will contribute to this area, which has not been studied in detail before. In addition, the methodical approach that is tried to be put forward in this article is aimed to help in understanding the ambiguous Qur'an curriculum correctly within the framework of linguistic meaning patterns between the verses.
Yazar isimleri: ['Duran EKİZER']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Tevilat
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tevilat/issue/67937/1093516
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2332977
