Makale Başlığı: Rights, Freedoms and Threats Defined by Kemalist Women Through the “Old”-“New”  Duality
Özet: The modernization efforts, which started from the last period of the Ottoman Empire, expanded the field of action by showing its effect on all institutions of the society. In this process, issues that were almost never mentioned until that day were brought to the agenda and the first traces of the beginning of a different period began to emerge. One of these traces, and the most important one, was the voicing of the problems related to the subordination of women. However, the voices rising in places were tried to be stopped with the emphasis on “privacy” surrounded by Islamic practices, and reforms were made to a reasonable extent. Even in the reform efforts that were considered radical, the underlying cautiousness continued to exist. After the proclamation of the Republic in 1923, with the “new woman” that was tried to be created, civilization almost gained an identity and body. This “new woman”, whose social and family position has changed to a great extent with the legal regulations, has been made responsible for fulfilling important duties. During the fulfillment of these duties and responsibilities determined by the Kemalist regime, women who were role models were asked to act within the boundaries drawn and in accordance with the behavior patterns that had been broadly defined before. The content of the aforementioned “conformity” discourse has been shaped by some external qualities and accepted principles regarding public sphere practices in general. These women, who tried to fulfill the duty given to them by Mustafa Kemal, strengthened their duty to watch and protect the regime, especially after the death of Mustafa Kemal, with a bond of loyalty shaped by secularism. They formed a women’s movement that can be called the “Kemalist women’s movement”, and they felt a deep anger against women who continue to cover up and cast this into a shadow, especially against secularism. Kemalist women identified this attitude with not understanding Mustafa Kemal or with hostile feelings towards Mustafa Kemal. In this study, the perception of secularism of women who define themselves as “Kemalist” is tried to be discussed and the basic parameters of the secularism defense they have developed are emphasized. The way in which the relationship of fidelity they established with Mustafa Kemal is handled together with existential concerns and threat definitions are examined. For this reason, first of all, a theoretical framework about who the “new woman” is formed and feminist literature is used. The aim of the study is to reveal the relationship between the threat perception of the “Kemalist women’s movement”, women’s rights and women’s freedom.
Yazar isimleri: ['Emel ÇOKOĞULLAR BOZASLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Akademik Açı
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/akademikaci/issue/73292/1130387
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2485067
