Makale Başlığı: The effects of foliar sulfur application under water stress conditions on yield, evapotranspiration and some physiological properties of cotton
Özet: Aims: This study was carried out to determine the effects of foliar sulfur application under water stress conditions on yield, evapotranspiration and some physiological properties of cotton.Methods and Results: This research was conducted on Carisma cotton plant variety, by splitted plots in randomized block design. Foliar sulfur doses was determined as 150 mL da-1 (S1), 250 mL da-1 (S2) and 350 mL da-1 (S3) and non sulphur (S0) treatment. Irrigation levels were composed of non irrigated (I0) and available water at three different irrigation levels (I100, I66, I33). Stomatal conductance (Sc), chlorohyll content (spad value) leaf surface temperature (LSt), cotton yield, evapotranspiration were measured in order to determine the effect of the applications. Foliar sulfur application did not effect the expected increase in yield. The highest yield was obtained as 6150 kg ha-1 in I100S1 in second year. The water stress that the plant was exposed caused a decrease in all parameters. Foliar sulfur application increased spad values in stressed leaves, but decreased in unstressed leaves. A high correlation was found between yield and Sc and LSt. It was determined that Spad values were not as sensitive to stress as Sc and LSt. The period of recovery from the stress that cotton was exposed to from the beginning of the flowering period took approximately 2 days longer than the beginning of the boll formation period. Water stress was accelerated the senescence trend in all treatment.Conclusions: There are studies showing that sulfur applications are successful in reducing stress. In these studies, sulfur was applied from the soil and to plants in controlled environments. The same success was not achieved in foliar application. While water stress negatively affected the physiological properties of the plant, foliar application of sulfur could not significantly eliminate this negativity.Significance and Impact of the Study: This research is important in terms of revealing the effects of foliar applied elemental sulfur on some physiological properties and evapotranspiration of cotton under water stress conditions
Yazar isimleri: ['Berkant ÖDEMİŞ', 'Yaşar AKIŞCAN']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Mustafa Kemal Üniversitesi Tarım Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mkutbd/issue/71394/1076251
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2264187
