Makale Başlığı: The Greation Tradition of the Jenre Sira in the Arab Literature
Özet: Every stone and wall in the Arab world, considered the gateway to the ancient East, is a cultural center and a nest of literature.  The Sira genre has an important place in the history of Arabic literature.  Literature was based on folklore.  Oral literature has contributed greatly to the development of Arabic literary. Just as the past of each nation is rooted in ancient folklore, so the past, customs and national thinking of the Arab people are based on folklore.  Examples of folklore with deep roots of the Arab literary heritage, the Arab world, the Arab genius, “Antara”, “Abu Saif”, “Ali Zibek”, “Hamza al Pahlavan”, “Thousand and one nights” tales, “Banu Hilal”, “Az Zahir Baibars” is the homeland of literary monuments Sira - folk tales about any legendary hero and knight, glorified by the heroic deeds of the Arab epic heritage. The saga is the largest of the folklore genres. The history of the people, their cultural values, their hopes for the future, their desires and feelings are of great importance in the folk literature of the Arab peoples.  This feature is due to the incarnation of epic images of real historical heroes, which are well-known among the people. The most popular of the people of the world, the Arabian folk siras is the main subject of our research. Our main aim is to examine the formation tradition of the sira genre in Arabic literature in three periods. In order to reveal the origins of the genre in Arabic literature, it has been talked as basic information since the creation of the genre.  In the second period, after the creation of the siras, new events are added to the characters and their characters are passed from region to region and from zone to zone, and in what conditions they are spread among the people.  In order to achieve the role of literary markets and obscure intologies in the spread of mysteries is discussed.  In the third period, from those who know the verbal tradition, to the writing of poems and prose, the issues of the formation of siras in writing are read. For a specific purpose, the historical periods and literary environment of Arabic literature, formed and evolved by the Arabs, are being studied.  This study aims to bring a different perspective by providing examples from the forms of ring reflection of the study of the siret genre, which occupies an important place in Arabic literature.  In short, the meaning, origin and genesis, formation and evolution of this genre, which has a complex structure and composition, containing both typological and chronological and colorful artistic material, are being studied, as well as the main reasons for its relevance today.
Yazar isimleri: ['Lalə BAYRAMOVA']
Yayın Yılı: 16 Mayıs 2022
Dergi ismi: AKRA Kültür Sanat ve Edebiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/akrajournal/issue/69842/928706
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1736225
