Makale Başlığı: The Concept of Jāhiliyyah according to al-Bukhārī within the Framework of the “Ayyām al-Jāhiliyyah” Chapter of his al-Jāmi‘ al-Ṣaḥīḥ
Özet: Al-Bukhārī’s al-Jāmi‘ al-Ṣaḥīḥ has been the subject of many scholarly studies in the context of the relations between hadiths and chapter titles. Each of these studies aims at a better understanding of al-Bukhārī and his work. The fact that al-Bukhārī’s chapter titles and their relation with hadiths have been the subject matter of many studies is related to the authenticity of his findings on hadiths. On the other hand, it is a fact that the relation between hadith and chapter title in Ṣahīḥ al-Bukhārī is not always clear and needs careful study. Therefore, in this article through analysis of Ṣahīḥ al-Bukhārī, we dwell on the sub-chapter of Ayyam al-Jāhiliyyah which belongs to the end section of the chapter Manāqib al-Anṣār containing nineteen hadiths about the period of Jāhiliyyah. We have analysed the place of the chapter title within the totality of the work, its content, and the relation of hadiths with the chapter title. In this fashion, we have attempted to contribute to the studies about al-Bukhārī’s method of hadith classification and his deductions from hadiths. With the analysis of the relevant chapter, we have tried to identify the deductive findings of al-Bukhārī and clarify the meaning of al-Bukhārī attached to the concept of Jāhiliyyah. We have noticed that although it is possible to see in other hadith collections the mention of Jāhiliyyah manners in some chapter titles about aḥkām (rulings, judgments), Ṣahīḥ al-Bukhārī is distinguished among others as it makes the Jāhiliyyah period an independent and in-depth section among siyar (life of the Prophet Muḥammad) chapters. The opening of an independent section in a hadith book to describe the Jāhiliyyah period is a specificity of al-Bukhārī. Of the nineteen hadiths al-Bukhārī transmitted in this section, five of them are marfū‘, thirteen are mawqūf, and one is maqṭū‘. This concurs with findings that he was rather keen to describe the Jāhiliyyah period based on the companions’ words. Subsequently, in this article, we have identified the common features and focus points of the transmitted hadiths of al-Bukhārī. Moreover, the meaning al-Bukhārī gave to the term Jāhiliyyah, how he described the Jāhiliyyah period, and how he evaluated the transit from Jāhiliyyah to Islam is studied. We have tried to identify the relevance of the nineteen hadiths with the chapter title in reference to the commentaries written on Ṣahīḥ al-Bukhārī starting from Fatḥ al-Bārī. Our findings support the idea that al-Bukhārī wanted to draw a historic depiction of Jāhiliyyah under this chapter title. In fact, according to al-Bukhārī, Jāhiliyyah in the sense of “life before Islam” is a process that partially continued after the Prophet’s call. That Jāhiliyyah is a situation before Islam that is relative since people who did not yet answer the Prophet’s call and the regions where Islam still did not govern are accepted to be in the Jāhiliyyah period. Therefore, it does not escape our attention that in al-Jāmi‘ al-Ṣaḥīḥ the term Jāhiliyyah has a multi-layered meaning. As a matter of fact, al-Bukhārī’s description of Jāhiliyyah is not a picture of absolute negativity. Instead, al-Bukhārī collected and brought together the hadiths that inform us that some of the faith, observances, and social acceptance of the Jāhiliyyah period –which were beneficial– were preserved in the Islamic period and some were partially altered whereas others were totally changed. The transmissions about the existence of belief in tawḥīd, ‘Ashūra fasting, and qasāma practice in unsolved murder cases during the Jāhiliyyah period are some practices that continued in the Islamic period. The hadīths about these practices is an indication that some historical continuity is in effect in the transition from Jāhiliyyah to Islam. On the other hand, some Jāhiliyyah manners and practices such as the exercise of nasī’ and giving an oath on ancestors were radically rejected by Islam. This makes us deliberate that al-Bukhārī did not formulate the concept of Jāhiliyyah as “the total other of Islam” on all fronts. According to him, together with its positive and negative sides, Jāhiliyyah is the name of a historical period. Al-Bukhārī’s hadith transmissions in the relevant section demonstrate that some religious observances and some social and legal practices of the Jāhiliyyah are preserved in the Islamic period and that the transit from Jāhiliyyah to Islam exhibits a social fluidity and continuity not always necessarily observed in a revolution. From this vantage point, we can maintain that Ṣahīḥ al-Bukhārī’s description of the Jāhiliyyah period offers important data for the studies in the field of social transformation.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşe Esra ŞAHYAR']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Marmara Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/maruifd/issue/70237/1075987
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2263157
