Makale Başlığı: Effect of antenatal class on maternal postnatal comfort
Özet: Objective: This research was conducted to determine the effect of participation to the antenatal class on postpartum comfort. Methods: The case-control study was conducted between 01.09.2017 and 28.12.2018, with primiparous mothers who gave birth in the Obstetrics Service of Aydın Gynecology and Childhood Diseases Hospital. The study was conducted with 75 mothers who participated to the antenatal class and 183 mothers who did not. The data of the research were collected by the researcher by face-to-face interview method between 6-24 hours after birth. Personal Information Form and Postpartum Comfort Scale were used to collect data. Descriptive statistics, Chi- square test, t-test and Mann Whitney U test were used to evaluate the data. Results: The mean age of the mothers in the control group was 22.97±3.74, and the mothers in the case group was 24.01±3.70. 37.3% of the mothers in the case group were high school students and 76.0% were housewives, while 40.4% of the mothers in the control group were secondary school graduates and 85.8% were housewives. Case and control group mothers were found to be statistically similar in terms of age group, but statistically different in terms of educational status, husbands educational status and working status. When the mean scores of the mothers in the case and control groups obtained from the Postpartum Comfort Scale total and physical, psychospiritual and sociocultural comfort subscales were compared, it was determined that there was no statistically significant difference. Conclusion: As a result of the research, the postpartum comfort levels of the mothers who participated in the pregnancy information class were found to be similar to the mothers who did not. In the pregnancy information class, it may be recommended to take initiatives to increase the comfort of the woman in the early postpartum period.
Yazar isimleri: ['Funda ÇINAR SAY', 'Ayden ÇOBAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Mersin Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mersinsbd/issue/71427/835665
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1430256
