Makale Başlığı: Teachers Before and After the Covid-19 Pandemic Analysis of Attitudes Towards Distance Education( Example of Sakarya)
Özet: The purpose of this research is to examine teachers' attitudes towards distance education, which has a large place in our education system, as the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic that emerged in Wuhan province of China in November 2019 began to affect Turkey, and their levels before and after the pandemic. The universe of the research consists of 13,422 teachers working in Sakarya Province. The study group of the study consisted of 723 teachers working in official primary, secondary and high schools in Sakarya in the 2020-2021 academic year and determined by simple random cluster sampling method.In this study, in which the descriptive survey model was used, one of the quantitative research designs, two separate forms were used to collect the data. The first of these is the personal information form containing the demographic information of the participants. In order to measure the attitude levels of teachers towards distance education, the Attitude Scale towards Distance Education, developed by Ağır (2007), was used. In the analysis of the data, the data analyzed in the computer environment with the SPSS 24.0 package program were interpreted by using Kruskal Wallis, ANOVA and t-test analysis. The level of significance was taken as 0.05.According to the results of the research, it was found that the rate of participation in the items indicating advantage of distance education decreased compared to the pre-pandemic period, and the rate of participation in the items indicating limitation increased, albeit slightly. When the research findings are evaluated in terms of variables, there are significant differences in the advantage dimension of the scale, gender, professional seniority, school type, branch, level of computer use and whether or not they have received education for distance education before and after the pandemic. has been found to occur.
Yazar isimleri: ['Neslihan İPEKLİ', 'Osman TİTREK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Sakarya Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sakaefd/issue/70412/1009972
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2027984
