Makale Başlığı: Investigation of the Relationship Between Psychological Strength and Attitude to Old Individuals In Students
Özet: Objective: Increasing elderly population in the world and in Turkey has brought with it the need for personnel with special training for the elderly.  In this study, it was aimed to evaluate the relationship between attitudes toward older people and resilience level of health care students. Method: A descriptive questionnaire, Kogan Attitudes Towards Older People Scale, and resilience scale were used in the study. Data remained below face-to-face training as of March 2021. Out of a total of 280 health care services department students, 184 were reached. In the statistical analysis of the data, mean±standard deviation, frequency and percentage values, independent groups t-test and one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) were used, and p<0.05 was taken for the significance level of the tests. The parametric test pearson correlation test was used to evaluate the correlation levels.  Result: The students' age, attitude scale and resilience scale total score averages were respectively 19,88± 1,428; 130,24±24,196; 194,49±39,476. The sub-dimensions of the resilience scale and  being strong and optimistic was found to be statistically significant in the elderly care program students (p<0,05). The sub-dimension of being a researcher of the resilience scale of students whose family type is extended family was found to be statistically significant (p<0,05). There was a statistically significant positive difference between the students' resilience scale and their attitudes towards old age.  Conclusion: Strengthening the psychological resilience of students who will work with the elderly will increase the quality of care as it will support their attitude towards the elderly person.
Yazar isimleri: ['Huri Seval GÖNDEREN ÇAKMAK']
Yayın Yılı: 5 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Avrasya Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/avrasyasbd/issue/72228/1098820
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2354718
