Makale Başlığı: National And Cultural Codes in Russian and Turkish Idioms
Özet: Idioms are cultural elements of societies and express the richness of expression of a language. Ancient values, national customs and traditions, and lifestyle of a society are of great importance in cultural transmission. In this regard, idioms are the primary ones of the formulaic expressions, which introduce the language diversity, and have the ability to express different events and circumstances through concise saying. A great number of idioms that are generated by feeding off the culture, and that improve, enrich, and at the same time, sustain the expression are included in both Russian and Turkish. Beliefs and rituals find their reflections in idioms along with the historical events, circumstances, true life experiences, manners, customs and traditions. In this study, elements of the Russian and Turkish national culture have been discussed through idioms in a comparative way within the context of cultural-linguistics. Ever-changing cultural facts may cause some changes in the meaning of the idioms. Therefore, some examples of idioms, which has become different in the course of time, have been demonstrated in the study as well as the idioms that have been protected in terms of form and meaning up to the present. Cultural-linguistics is a science that emerged at the end of the XX century and analyzes the interaction between language and culture. The research area of cultural-linguistics is the language that collects and transmits cultural information and the material and moral values peculiar to the people. Features such as the way of thinking, ancient values, beliefs, and traditions peculiar to one society are revealed through cultural-linguistic analyzes. In this regard, the formation, development, and role of this discipline, which has been frequently faced in language studies recently, in idiom analyzes have been mentioned by taking into consideration the effect of cultural-linguistics on language units.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sonnur AKTAY']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Dil Araştırmaları
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dilarastirmalari/issue/73633/1167817
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2619331
