Makale Başlığı: Bitlis Deputies and Their Activities in the The Republican Period According to the Archival Records of The Grand National Assembly of Turkey (1923–1950)
Özet: Bitlis is one of the important civilization centers of Anatolia with its historical background and cultural values. For this reason, researching and lighting every period of the city's history will make significant contributions to both the province of Bitlis and the "Historical Science". Local history studies provide important resources and benefits to regional and national history studies. The political living space of Bitlis, which has been an important settlement throughout history, since the first years of the Republic, and the efforts of the cadres engaged in politics in this area are of great importance in terms of social transformation. With this study, we aimed to evaluate the political, social, economic and cultural development process of Bitlis in the Republican Period, the deputies representing the city and their activities. It is important to reveal the political, social, economic and cultural bases of the political cadres who dominated the country's administration in the Republican era, both at the local and national level. In general, the progress and development of the country, the city it represents locally, in line with the planned targets is closely related to the skills of the deputies. In this study, the background of the deputies who represented the city of Bitlis in the Turkish Grand National Assembly during the Republican Period (1923-1950) and the activities of the Parliament were investigated, the representation status of Bitlis in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in this period, the people elected, the studies and events were examined, and the political history of the city was tried to be explained. In this study, prepared in the light of archive sources, the biographies and parliamentary activities of the Bitlis Deputies in the Republican Period were discussed in detail in chronological order. Information on the biogrrhys of the deputies was obtained from the registry files in the TBMM Archive, the Translator Hal Warakas and the Turkish Parliament History (first 8 volumes), which are the publications of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The election records of the deputies were obtained from the archives of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and their work in the General Assembly was obtained by scanning the Minutes. In order to reach the other political works of the deputies, the documents related to Bitlis in the Presidency Republic Archive were used. In this study, the biographies of the deputies and their studies were revealed in the light of the documents obtained from the archive records. In addition, by making a literature review, other research works that will contribute to our subject have been examined and an article has been created. As a result of the study, it was seen that 12 deputies represented Bitlis in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (Parliament 2-3-6-7-8. Periods) in the Republican Period. Muhittin Nami Bey (2nd and 3rd Terms) and Muhtar Ertan (7th and 8th Terms) from these deputies served as deputies for two terms each. At this point, the curriculum vitae and parliamentary studies of 10 different deputies who served as Bitlis Deputy during the study period were examined.
Yazar isimleri: ['Suat ÖZDAĞ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Vakanüvis - Uluslararası Tarih Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/vakanuvis/issue/72861/1139893
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2522714
