Makale Başlığı: Investigation of Neutrophil Volume, Conductivity, and Light-Scattering Parameters for Early Diagnosis of Bacterial Infections
Özet: Aim: Early diagnosis of bacterial infections is crucial in planning treatment. Thus, it is important to determine the gram staining property of bacteria as well as the presence of bacterial infection. The acute bacterial infection leads to morphological changes in neutrophils. In this study, we investigated the use of neutrophil volume, conductivity and light-scattering (VCS) parameters as potential indicators for rapid diagnosis of bacterial infections, and to distinguish infections caused by gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria.Material and Methods: Patients with urinary tract infections, pneumonia, wound site infections and sepsis were included. The control group comprised patients without bacterial infections. The blood samples of the patients were examined for white blood cell and neutrophil counts; neutrophil VCS parameters were determined using a Coulter Analyzer. The VITEK 2 Compact System was used to detect microbial growth.Results: The blood sample data of 472 patients sent to our laboratory for Complete Blood Count analyses from various clinics were analyzed in this study. A total of 370 samples showed significant growth in their bacteriological culturing, whereas the remaining 102 samples showed no growth. For the detection of bacterial growth, the specificities of median neutrophil volume (MNV) and median neutrophil conductivity (MNC) were found to be 96% and 99%, respectively. In addition, median neutrophil light scattering (MNS) was higher in the gram-negative bacterial group than in the gram-positive bacterial group. Conclusion: The use of neutrophil VCS parameters is an effective and time-saving method to identify bacterial infections and distinguish between gram-positive and gram-negative bacterial infections.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 20 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Sağlık Bilimlerinde Değer
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sabd/issue/72485/1171636
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2635183
