Makale Başlığı: THE OTTOMAN IMAGE IN HISTORY TEXTBOOKS IN THE REPUBLIC PERIOD (1950-2020)
Özet: The secular-nationalist understanding adopted in the first years of the republic brought along a new historiography. In this writing, which is called the Turkish History Thesis, historical and cultural roots are based on Central Asia. The Turkish National Struggle and the republican regime established after it were highlighted. While the Ottoman Empire was marginalized, with an eclectic approach, historical successes such as preserving and developing the Turkish-Muslim presence in Anatolia and the conquest of Istanbul in the early periods of the Ottoman Empire were embraced. This historiography, which was dominant between 1931 and 1950, also showed itself in history textbooks. However, as a result of the elections held on May 14, 1950, the uninterrupted one-party rule of the Republican People's Party (RPP) came to an end, and the Democrat Party (DP) came to power alone. In this period, when a liberal understanding was effective in every field, various studies were carried out in the field of education. The single textbook application has been terminated. Textbooks in general and history textbooks in particular were reprinted and published by private publishing houses. The Ottoman image in high school history textbooks has also changed. The harsh marginalizing style of the Early Republic period has survived to the present day by transforming into a softer style. In this study on the Ottoman image in high school history textbooks, two categories emerged as "sultans-sovereignty-caliphate" and "administrative and social order In this study in the case study design, it is aimed to see the change and transformation of the Ottoman Image in the high school history textbooks that have been in education since 1950 by using the document analysis method in the study.
Yazar isimleri: ['Eray ALACA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Asya Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asya/issue/72908/1097030
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2347078
