Makale Başlığı: Developing and preliminary validating a new scale to evaluate primary care comprehensiveness in Turkey
Özet: In this study, it was aimed to develop a new valid and reliable scale that can evaluate the service comprehensivenesslevels of family medicine units in our country. This study was a methodological type scale development study. The studysample consisted of 252 family physicians who worked in Manisa Province. The study was conducted in two phases:(1) development of items and dimensions of the scale (extensive literature review, expert views, a pilot study); (2)confirming scale validation (content validity, internal consistency, confirmatory factor analysis and reliability test). Theprimary care comprehensiveness scale consists of 170 items and 6 sub-dimensions (routin risk-groups monitoring,health promotion services, health screening, rehabilitation services and acute and chronic health conditionsmanagement). The validity and reliability of the scale were verified performing content validity, confirmatory factoranalysis, known-groups validity and reliability analysis. The data obtained from the participants were evaluated usingIBM SPSS and IBM AMOS programs. Cronbach alpha coefficient of scale calculated for the internal consistency was0.810, while the subscales ranged from 0.730 to 0.840. Item-total item correlations (except for the items that weredecided to be removed from the scale) ranged from 0.388 to 0.875. According to the results of the analysis, 39 itemsand 1 sub-dimension that were determined as problematic were removed from the scale. As a result of confirmatoryfactor analysis, final scale that comprised 98-item and five dimensions’ fit indices results (RMSEA=0.053, CFI=0.889)were within acceptable ranges. It has been determined that the primary care comprehensiveness scale has adequatereliability and validity and can be used to assess comprehensiveness of primary care in Turkey.
Yazar isimleri: ['Burak TUNÇ', 'Erhan ESER']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: ESTÜDAM Halk Sağlığı Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/estudamhsd/issue/73011/1110066
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2401665
