Makale Başlığı: THE EFFECT OF PLY COMBINATION ON MECHANICAL AND PHYSICAL PROPERTIES IN LAMINATED VENEER LUMBER (LVL) MANUFACTURED FROM ALDER AND POPLAR
Özet: Laminated veneer lumber (LVL) is an engineering product material used as girders, beams, joist, headers, panels, etc. in construction. In this study, the effect of ply combination on oven-dry specific gravity, equilibrium moisture content, thickness swelling and water absorption, tensile-shear strength, modulus of rupture, modulus of elasticity and compression strength parallel to grain of LVL manufactured from alder and poplar was investigated. Alder veneer, poplar veneer and urea formaldehyde glue were used in LVL production. LVLs were produced in a total of 10 different combinations. Oven-dry specific gravity, equilibrium moisture content, thickness swelling and water absorption, tensile-shear strength, modulus of rupture, modulus of elasticity and compression strength parallel to grain of test samples were determined according to TS 2472, TS 2471, TS EN 317, EN 314-1, TS 2474 and TS 2595, respectively. Based on this study, the highest modulus of rupture, modulus of elasticity, compression strength and oven dry specific gravity values were obtained with alder veneers used in all plies. On the other hand, the highest tensile-shear strength values were obtained with poplar veneers used in all plies. With the rising in the use of poplar veneer in LVL production, an increase in the amount of thickness swelling and water absorption was observed. It was also observed that as contribution rate of alder veneer in lamination increases, oven dry specific gravity, modulus of rupture, modulus of elasticity and compression strength values were increased.
Yazar isimleri: ['İlkay ATAR', 'Fatih MENGELOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Journal of Forest Science
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/turkjforsci/issue/73235/1114074
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2417172
