Makale Başlığı: The Sufi and Literary Commentary on Sheikh Mohammed Karbalayi’s Takhmis on Mewlana Khalid-i Baghdadi’s Ghazal
Özet: Sheikh Mohammad Karbalayī is a sufi poet who grew up in the Akhtepe school, which was one of the important centers of Naqshī-Khālidī school until the first quarter of the 20th century. The poet’s literary accumulation, which was shaped around the Naqshī-Khālidī lodge and cult culture, carried him to a distinguished place, especially in the art of sufi poetry. The poet left a legacy of a diwan containing poems from three languages (Persian, Arabic, Ottoman) besides Kurdish; These poems are very rich in terms of content, and have a high rhetorical value, especially in the sufistic sense. In the aforementioned diwan of the poet, there are also takhmis and naqizes made to the ghazals of Mawlana Khalid Bagdadi, the founder of Naqshî-Khālidī. These takhmis and naqizes in question were generally written in Persian. Two of these takhmis written in Persian are in the form of seven bends and the other in the form of five bends. This takhmis with five bends is a reply in a kind made into a ghazal consisting of five couplets by Mawlana Khalid Baghdadi. The aforementioned ghazal of Mawlana Khalid consists of a nazire written by Hafez Shirāzī in a ghazal. This five-point takhmis, which has deep dualistic comparisons in sufi and moral sense and strong implications of these comparisons, is important in terms of thematic form and aesthetics, and it is evident that Mawlana Khalid was influential on Kurdish sufi poets not only in terms of sufism and Mujaddidī-Naqshī but also in terms of literature notable for its demonstration. It also shows a kind of intertextuality extending from Sheikh Mohammad Karbalayī to Mawlana Khalid and from him to Hafez Shirazi. While takhmis shows the intertextuality between these three poets, he also reveals the influence of Hafez Shirazi in classical Kurdish sufi literature. The message that all three mentioned poets want to give in this ghazal is joy from the integrity of meaning, good and bad, precious and worthless, beautiful and ugly, etc. includes propositions. In the content of the takhmis, the permanence of the minimum moral values that should be in the person is mentioned. It has been mentioned that the evils and apparent beauties that will tear a person away from his good spirit are formal. The idea that two genders that are the same in appearance will not be the same in essence has been worked out. Thus, the difference between outward and inward, which forms the basis of sufism, has been pointed out by considering the dualistic debate framework. In this study, a sufistic and literary analysis of a poem that was ended with a takhmis by Sheikh Mohammad Karbalayī was made. The interaction between these three poets has been examined with an interdisciplinary approach. In this study, sufistic and literary classical commentary methods were followed. In the study, first of all, the structural aspects of estimation and dualistic comparison features are discussed. Then, the transcription and translation of a total of twenty-five verses, each of which consists of five lines, was made. In the commentary part, which constitutes the main part of the study, the focus is on the meaning rather than the grammatical features of the couplets and lines and their lexicon. In this section, each verse has been handled separately, and attention has been drawn to verses and hadiths or religious references, if any, without disturbing the general texture of the paragraph. Classical beliefs and creeds have been explained, and especially sufistic images have been emphasized. If it is included in a bend or couplet, mythological narratives, ancient beliefs, the life, and identity of the people mentioned or whose names are mentioned are also briefly mentioned. After the annotation part of each subordinate, its literary points are stated. In this part, reference, inspiration, metaphor, innuendo, pun, sheci and so on. Ma‘ani, badi' and declarative type of literary wit are indicated. Thus, a kind of anatomy of the aforesaid takhmis has been put forward and presented to the use of researchers in the history and literature of sufism.
Yazar isimleri: ['Veysel BAŞÇI', 'Yakup AYKAÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Şırnak Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sirnakifd/issue/72071/1168040
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2620420
