Makale Başlığı: Pandemic Process from the Window of Healthcare Professionals
Özet: Aim: In the study, it was aimed to determine how healthcare professionals perceive the pandemic and being health professional by using the metaphor analysis method.Material and Methods: The phenomenological qualitative study was conducted with 264 healthcare professionals working in a research hospital, between April and May 2021. The data were collected via Google forms with the online survey technique. Content analysis and descriptive analysis techniques were used in the evaluation of qualitative data.Results: It was determined that healthcare professionals created 219 metaphors for the pandemic, and the frequencies of 104 metaphors were n=1. It has been determined that the metaphors of earthquake, war, darkness, fire and storm are in the first five places for the pandemic. It was determined that the frequency of 70 of 99 metaphors related to being a health professional in the pandemic was n=1. It has been determined that the metaphors of soldier, slave, angel, star and light/sun/light for being a healthcare professional are in the first five places in the pandemic. When the metaphors created were evaluated, six categories were determined for perceiving the pandemic and five categories for the perception of being a healthcare professional in a pandemic. Considering the number of metaphors created, it can be said that healthcare professionals perceive the pandemic process very differently.Conclusion: According to the research findings; it can be said that the pandemic process affects health professionals in a multidimensional way in terms of physical, mental and social aspects, and this process is generally perceived negatively. It is thought that it will be important to plan and implement psychosocial intervention programs for healthcare professionals, considering the perceptions of healthcare professionals regarding the pandemic process and their profession. in this process.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 20 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Sağlık Bilimlerinde Değer
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sabd/issue/72485/1171668
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2635324
