Makale Başlığı: COVID-19 PANDEMIC: DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY USAGE AND ASSOCIATED SOCIO-TECHNOLOGICAL CHALLENGES
Özet: COVID-19 is a worldwide epidemic that has already claimed the lives of thousands of people, i.e., caused hundreds of thousands of infections and deaths, with several thousand more expected. COVID-19 has caused a global pandemic, a coronavirus disease detected in 2019. It has a genetic resemblance to the SARS coronavirus, which was responsible for the SARS outbreak in 2002; COVID-19 is caused by a virus known as SARS CoV-2, or severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2. In COVID-19, coronaviruses that were originally circulating among bats, a natural animal reservoir, changed and eventually started causing sickness in people. The pandemic started in China and has since spread throughout the globe. Covid-19 has changed healthcare delivery and the entire public-health strategy. At this point, the traditional healthcare system would be unable to function. By implementing numerous efforts internationally to reduce the lethality and transmissibility of the deadly virus throughout populations, technology has played an essential part in reducing the effects of this pandemic. New technologies were used for various goals, including prevention, contact tracing, surveillance, and medical support at home. The pandemic has an impact on socio-cultural, religious, and psychological realms. Technology has altered our social and professional lives, but it has also presented new problems. The current study examines the growing digital technologies used during the COVID-19 pandemic and its problems and drawbacks, using PubMed and Google Scholar databases. This paper's primary goal is to identify current technology and the issues they provide.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ajeet JAİSWAL']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Mart 2022
Dergi ismi: Habitus Toplumbilim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/habitus/issue/69096/1072340
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2248952
