Makale Başlığı: Secondary School Students' Self-Efficacy Towards Using Mobile Applications in Mathematics Lessons
Özet: This study aims to examine secondary school students' self-efficacy beliefs regarding the use of mobile learning in mathematics education. Within the scope of the study, the scanning model was used to examine the secondary school students' self-efficacy in using mobile devices in the mathematics lesson. In the 2020-2021 academic year, 381 students studying at secondary schools in the central district of Bartın province participated in the research. Personal information form and self-efficacy scale of using mobile learning tools were used to collect data. According to the results of the study, the students' self-efficacy for using mobile devices was found to be high, and it was determined that the factor with the highest average among the sub-factors of the scale used was "Performing Lesson Activities with Mobile Devices". When mobile learning self-efficacy was examined according to grade levels, it was found that there was a significant difference between 5th and 6th grades and 5th and 7th grades. It was found that the participants with the highest mobile device usage self-efficacy average in terms of mobile device ownership had mobile devices. However, it was concluded that the self-efficacy of students with mobile devices and the self-efficacy of students without mobile devices differed significantly. When the duration of internet use is taken into account, the self-efficacy levels differ significantly between the groups that use the internet for less than 1 hour a day and between the groups that use the internet for 2-4 hours. In addition, it has been determined that there is no significant difference in mobile learning self-efficacy of students according to gender.
Yazar isimleri: ['Tugba GULER', 'Ahmet Berk USTUN', 'Ahmet YILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Disiplinlerarası Eğitim Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jier/issue/72377/1064669
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2219198
