Makale Başlığı: Sociopolitics, Psychology, And Genocracy of Global Nationalism and Neo-Racism; Peace and Conflict Philosophy
Özet: The study problematizes the sociological/political/psychological/genetic aspects of neo-racism and nationalism and their conflict consequences. It aims to unlock points within peace philosophy and enlightenment. The paper argues that contemporary sociopolitics, as an expression of neoliberalism, globalization, radical nationalism, and supremacy, maintain archaic conflicting ideological, racial antagonistic, and national entity relations, particularly in post-socialist and post-conflict ethnoreligiously controlled societies-Balkans. Racism is a moral and sociopolitical subject significantly related to peace and conflict philosophy normative. Although a liberal conscience can be reassured by the fact that genetics has not found much difference among the peoples of the world, it is irrelevant to the problem of racism. In the sphere of flexibility, it established an association with nationalism. Nationalism initiates and homogenizes the national masses with narratives regarding the threat to national domains or injustices. Neo-racism and nationalism ignore insights into group differentiation; race genetics narratives were scientifically disguised prejudice. Racism can be enforced in regions with zero racial diversity. The significant causes lie within structural mechanisms of conflict, overwhelmed by the ethnonational/ethnoreligious culture of antagonism and fear. Balkan sports racism is correlated with ethnoreligious nationalism. It is deeply rooted in the culture and creation of ethnoreligious homogenous territories and ethnonational radicalism/far-right patterns. The racist and nationalist antagonistic mind can be liberated through enlightenment; one must notice how the national/ethnic/religious mind functions. The peace philosophy seeks to advance human society marked by processes and relations, cooperation, tolerances, mutual arrangements, and parity to resolve violent, non-violent, or ideological conflicts within the liberty of manifestation of individuals and societies. Thus, general civilizational progress.
Yazar isimleri: ['Faruk HADŽİĆ']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Universal Journal of History and Culture
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ujhc/issue/72930/1116521
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2427169
