Makale Başlığı: Electrical And Electronic Engineers Industry 4.0 Determining Awareness Levels
Özet: There have been three major industrial revolutions throughout the history of humanity. Industry 1.0 is the period when water and steam powered machines were discovered and the concept of mass production emerged. With the invention of Industry 2.0 electricity, machines working with water and steam power were replaced by machines working with electricity, and production was carried out both faster and more efficiently. Industry 3.0, on the other hand, is the period that covers the introduction of computers from calculators to daily life with the development of machines and automation systems that can be programmed in the field of information technologies. Industry 4.0, on the other hand, refers to the industrial revolution that we are in and that is making continuous progress. The concept of Industry 4.0 was introduced for the first time at Germany's Hannover Trade Fair in 2011. In this industrial revolution, it is aimed that all physical systems work automatically and can be controlled remotely. For this reason, it is the realization of a system, also called a smart factory, where there is no human factor, by replacing people working in production systems with robots. This study consists of 2 parts. In the first part, the historical stages of industrial revolutions are examined, the concept of Industry 4.0 and its development are mentioned, and then the relationship between artificial intelligence and the internet of things is discussed. In addition, a general evaluation was made by drawing attention to the advantages and disadvantages of Industry 4.0 and giving information about its application areas and future. In the second part, in order to determine the Industry 4.0 awareness levels of electrical and electronics engineers, a survey was conducted with a total of 64 electrical and electronics engineers, 52 male and 12 female, working in various companies in Diyarbakır. As a result of this survey, it was determined that 69.21% of electrical and electronics engineers knew the concepts of Industry 4.0 very well, 16.25% knew well, 11.01% knew a little and 3.51% did not know at all.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bedirhan BATIBAY']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Rahva Teknik ve Sosyal Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rahva/issue/70866/1135012
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2504212
