Makale Başlığı: Does Computed Tomography Provide an Advantage over X-ray in the Treatment of Intertrochanteric Fractures?
Özet: Objective: Successful treatment of intertrochanteric fractures depends on an appropriate implant and is decided according to fracture classification and stability. In the present study, the purpose was to investigate the interobserver and intraobserver consistency of x-ray and/or Computed Tomography (CT) in fracture classification and implant preference for treatment in intertrochanteric fractures.Materials and Methods: The patients who were diagnosed with 80 intertrochanteric fractures by two orthopedists with 5 or more years of trauma experience and who had pelvic CT scans for suspected accompanying fractures were evaluated in the study. AO/OTA classification and implant preference for treatment were based on x-ray and/or CT. Second evaluations were made two weeks later. Cohen’s Kappa was calculated for interobserver reliability in the first evaluation and intraobserver reliability in the first and second evaluations.Results: Intra-observer ICC ranged between 0.861 and 0.973 for Observer-1 and between 0.893 and 0.993 for Observer-2 in all evaluations. Inter-observer ICC was within the range of 0.865-0.961 based on primary evaluations. These data represented excellent intra- and inter-observer consistency for both observers (P<0.001).Conclusion: Preoperative CT scans may provide diagnostic benefits for implant preference, especially in intertrochanteric fractures evaluated as stable (AO/OTA-31A1) according to x-ray. Although CT scan analysis results are excellent, this imaging modality should be used on a case-by-case basis to plan and optimize surgical procedures.
Yazar isimleri: ['Murat KAYA', 'Hayati KART', 'Fevzi SAĞLAM', 'Özgür BAYSAL', 'Shikhalı ISGANDARLI', 'Ömer BÜYÜKTOPÇU']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Sakarya Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/smj/issue/72629/1088239
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2311202
