Makale Başlığı: Relationship Between Skeletal and Dental Malocclusions in the Sagittal Direction in Turkish Orthodontic Patients: A Retrospective Study
Özet: Objective: This study aims to evaluate the compatibility between skeletal and dental malocclusions in the sagittal direction.Material and Methods: 230 patients (male, female) aged 11-18 years, who applied to Van Yüzüncü Yıl University Faculty of  Dentistry Orthodontic Clinic, had no craniofacial anomaly, had not received orthodontic treatment and had no history of trauma, were included in the study. Individuals were divided into groups according to their ANB angles. The molar relationships in different sagittal skeletal malocclusions were examined. Descriptive analysis and the Pearson chi-square test were used to evaluate the information. The obtained data were statistically analyzed at the 5% significance level.Results: 230 individuals between the ages of 12-30 were divided into groups according to their ANB angles. In individuals with skeletal Class 1 malocclusion, the molar relationship was Angle Class II at most and Angle Class IV at most negligible. In individuals with skeletal Class 2 malocclusion, the molar relationship was determined as Angle Class II at most, while Angle Class III subdivision and no molar relationship were observed at least. In individuals with skeletal Class 3 malocclusion, the molar relation was Angle Class III at most, Angle Class IV at least, and no molar relation.Conclusion: In this study, it was observed that there was a significant relationship between skeletal malocclusions and molar relationships. However, it is thought that the molar relationship may vary due to different factors other than skeletal malocclusion.
Yazar isimleri: ['Saadet ÇINARSOY CİĞERİM', 'Jamıl BAYZED', 'Gönül ÖZTÜRK', 'Fatih KAZANCI', 'Hüseyin Melik BÖYÜK', 'Helin DURSUN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Van Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/vansaglik/issue/72402/1084471
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2296602
