Makale Başlığı: Dolomitization Mechanism in the Chorgali Formation (Eocene), Pakistan: Evidences from Field observations, Petrography, Mineralogical and SEM analysis
Özet: The subject of dolomite formation has always put researchers in the challenge. In this study, the origin of the dolomites of the Chorgali Formation near Chorgali Pass was explored through field observation, petrographic characteristics, mineralogical and geochemical analysis. Analytical analyses used in the present studies include XRD, SEM-EDS, and stable isotopes studies. The dolomites were categorized into three major genetic types based on their textural and structural features showing their distinct origins. These dolomites are named fine crystalline dolomite (Df), medium crystalline dolomite (Dm), and coarse crystalline dolomite (Dc). The analytical approaches linked with field observations and petrographic examinations identified that; the first type of dolomites (i.e., Df) is related to the early stage of diagenesis and contain the presence of mineral dolomite (40%), gypsum (27%), quartz (17%) and albite (16%) and are low stochiometric low ordered in character as recognized by XRD results. The SEM-EDS analysis identified low Mg, Ca, O, Na, Si, and Fe concentrations. Further, the stable isotopes (δ18O) values for Df (i.e., -5.95 to -396‰V-PDB) are less depleted. Moreover, Dm and Dc revealed 100% mineral dolomite and are stochiometric ordered dolomites. High concentrations of Mg, Ca and O are observed in Dm and Dc respectively. Stable isotopes (δ18O) result in exhibiting highly depleted values for Dm (-7.947‰V-PDB) and Dc (-9.227 to -8.302‰V-PDB) showing its formation with the elevated temperature at depth. In addition, δ13C values of Df, Dm, and Dc lie in the range of the original marine signature of Eocene times.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sajjad KHAN']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Journal of Geosciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/turkgeo/issue/70669/1028669
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2100649
