Makale Başlığı: Investigation of The Attitudes of Academic and Administrative Staff Working in The University Towards Sports
Özet: In the study, it is aimed to examine the attitudes of the administrative staff and academic staff in different fields of study towards sports in the context of psychosocial, physical and mental development areas. The universe of the research consisted of academic and administrative staff working in universities, and the sample group consisted of a total of 100 participants, 45 academicians and 55 administrative staff, who were actively working in these institutions and were contacted in accordance with the simple random method. The ʻʻAttitude Scale Towards Sportsʼʼ developed by Koçak (2014) was applied to the participants. The scale consists of 22 items and 3 sub-dimensions. Kolmogorov Smirnov test was applied to the variables. It was determined that the variances of the variables obtained as a result of the test did not show normal distribution. The analysis between the sub-dimensions of the scale and demographic information was carried out with the Mann Whitney U test. The p<0.05 value was considered significant within the 95% confidence interval of the analysis. Participants were evaluated in the sub-dimensions of the attitude scale towards sports in the context of their educational status, marital status and field of duty, and included psychosocial development (p:0.019<0.05), physical development (p:0.005<0.05) and mental development (p:0.045<0.05). 0.05) sub-dimensions were found to have significant differences in terms of gender. There was no significant difference at the p<0.05 level according to the variables of education and marital status. When evaluated according to their duties (academic personnel-administrative personnel), a significant difference was found between academic and administrative personnel in the psychosocial development sub-dimension (p:0.45<0.05); No significant difference was found in physical development and mental development parameters.
Yazar isimleri: ['Merve BEKTAŞ', 'Okan DEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 7 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: The Journal of International Scientific Researches
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/isrjournal/issue/72945/1159869
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2587673
