Makale Başlığı: The Relatıonshıp Between Technologıcal Progress And Qualıfıed And Unqualıfıed Women Labor In Eu-15 Countrıes: A Panel Data Sımultaneous Equatıon System Analysıs
Özet: Considering the advantages and disadvantages of the developments in the means of production and technological advances together, it is likely to declare that they have directed the course of history to a great extent. Because technological breakthroughs are seen as the advent of many problems, especially climate change, in addition to the many advantages they provide. The effect of technology on employment areas has been an ongoing debate for many years.In this study, the relationship between technology and women's labor is examined. The study aims to determine at what level technological progress impacts the employment of skilled and unskilled women. Therefore, the effect of technological progress on qualified and unqualified women's labor is the EU-15 (Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and England) for the period 2000-2020. It has been tested with the help of the panel simultaneous equation system on the axis of the countries. The importance of the study is the advancement in technology the skilled women's labor or the unskilled women's labor? to reveal more influence. Analysis findings indicated that technological developments decreased the unemployment rate of qualified women while increasing the unemployment rate of unqualified women. In other words, while technological developments have positively affected the employment of qualified women workers, it has been observed that unqualified women workers are harming the employment conditions.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nuran AKDAĞ', 'Ali ÇELİK']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Ankara Hacı Bayram Veli Üniversitesi İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Fakültesi  Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ahbvuibfd/issue/72340/1095061
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2339268
