Makale Başlığı: A Study on the Relationship Between Organizational Hypocrisy, Organizational Citizenship and Motivation According to Teachers' Perceptions
Özet: In this study, the relationship between organizational hypocrisy, organizational citizenship and motivation was investigated in terms of teachers' perceptions. The research was designed in the relational screening model in the quantitative research method. The population of the research consists of the kindergarten, primary, secondary and high school teachers working in the city center of Erzincan during the 2020-2021 academic year. The research sample consists of 195 teachers selected by simple random sampling method. The data used in the study were collected electronically due to the epidemic. The findings of the research were analyzed with the SPSS package program. Before the data were analyzed, they were subjected to the normal distribution test and it was seen that the data showed normal distribution. In the analysis of the data, mean, independent groups t-test, one-way anova, correlation analysis and regression analysis methods were used. According to the results obtained from the research, while organizational hypocrisy perceptions of teachers were low, organizational citizenship behavior and motivation perceptions were high. While organizational hypocrisy and motivation perceptions of teachers did not show a significant difference according to gender, marital status, type of school and seniority variable, it was concluded that teachers' organizational citizenship perceptions showed a significant difference only according to the variable of school type.  It can be said that there is a negative and moderately significant relationship between teachers' perceptions of organizational hypocrisy and organizational citizenship, and organizational hypocrisy and motivation perceptions, and a positive and highly significant relationship between organizational citizenship and motivation perceptions. According to another result obtained from the research, it was concluded that teachers' perceptions of organizational hypocrisy and motivation were a significant predictor of organizational citizenship perceptions.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yeşim BUYRUK AKIL', 'Sinan YALÇIN']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Muğla Sıtkı Koçman Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/muefd/issue/70362/969522
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1874215
