Makale Başlığı: Use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles in Forest Road Projects
Özet: Road networks are accepted as a criterion showing the level of development of countries. Undoubtedly, the role of highways in facilitating human life is quite important. However, road routes involve high cost land surveying studies that can pass through areas with various land use types and cover.For forest road routes to be built in forest areas, points representing the land surface can be obtained by various measurement methods (remote sensing, photogrammetry and terrestrial measurement techniques). Depending on the land structure and cover, difficulties are encountered in the determination of spatial points with terrestrial measurement techniques. In this study, as an alternative to the terrestrial measurement technique, 341 m long forest road excavation and filling calculations were carried out with the help of Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) photogrammetry. Photo pairs taken from different heights (50 m, 75 m and 100 m) with real-time kinematics (RTK) GPS UAV were processed with Agisoft to produce a point cloud. The point cloud data obtained by digital photogrammetry and land measurement methods were carried out in NetCAD environment for the excavation and filling calculations for the same road route. Between the two methods, in the 50 m, 75 m and 100 m measurements of the UAV obtained by ground measurement; In the calculation of the UAV 50m measurement amount, 0.27% in the total excavation amount and 1.08% difference in the total filling amount, 2.51% in the total excavation amount and 5.22% in the total filling amount in the calculation of the UAV 75 m measurement amount, and the total difference in the UAV 100m measurement amount in the calculation of the UAV 50m measurement amount. A difference of 3.13% in the amount of excavation and 2.53% in the total amount of filling was determined. These results show that UAV photogrammetry is very effective in forest road projects and in calculating the amount of earthwork volume in mountainous terrain.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mihrişah KINALI', 'Erhan ÇALIŞKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Bartın Orman Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/barofd/issue/72573/1073229
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2252059
