Makale Başlığı: A Study on the Structural Problems of Elazıg Beyzade Efendi Mansion
Özet: As Harput lost its role as a castle, the city center was moved to the Elâzığ Plain. After the construction of the railway and PTT building in the new city center, the region entered a rapid urbanization process. Due to the rapid and uncontrolled transformations, many historical buildings in Elazığ have disappeared. The current status of these buildings, whose numbers are decreasing day by day, should be determined quickly in order to protect and transfer them to future generations. In the identification studies, the structural problems of historical buildings should be analyzed correctly and the most appropriate intervention (maintenance, repair, improvement, strengthening, etc.) decisions should be made for these buildings. In this context, this article has been prepared in order to set an example in determining the structural problems in the historical buildings of Elazığ. In the article, researches were conducted on Beyzade Efendi Mansion, one of the buildings that best represents the traditional architecture of Elazığ. First of all, a literature research on the history of the building was conducted. Then, observational and technical trips were made to the area where the mansion is located to determine its spatial and structural features. In the light of the data obtained from the research, the structural problems of the mansion were determined. As a result of the study, solution suggestions for the structural problems of the mansion were presented. It is aimed that the structural problems and solution suggestions identified in the study will help the future intervention decisions to be taken for the mansion.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ebru DOĞAN']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Fırat Üniversitesi Harput Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/had/issue/73198/1186980
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2699775
