Makale Başlığı: The Occupation of Muş in the Context of Russia's Eastern Anatolia Policy
Özet: The tension between Russia and the Ottoman State has been going on for a long time. At the time of this tension, both states had also set various strategies against each other, military and politically. The basis of the strategy was to weaken the other side economically, military and strategically. As a matter of fact, XIX. By the 20th century, Russia had engaged its political side, mobilized ethnic structures that would cause unrest within the Ottoman State, so it wanted to break the power of the Ottoman State. He tried to lure the political and war-path regions into the region where they would have acquired the ethnic structures by recognizing some concessions, and began attempts to weaken the Ottoman with the rioting of these ethnic structures. Russia has implemented this policy in the Eastern Anatolian region, and is politically motivated to achieve its precedent. As a matter of fact, these initiatives have come to an end, I. After the beginning of World War II, Armenians who have lived in peace with Ottoman subjects for centuries have moved to Russia's side, and have started to slaughter against the Muslim people in the Ottoman lands. One of the scariest of these massacres was in Mus. With the beginning of the war, the geographical proximity was also given by the Russians, who provoked the Armenians here against the Muslim people, and used them to commit a massacre. With Russia's support, Armenians have brokered religious schools to awaken national feelings and bring Armenian subjects to face Muslim people. So, the Armenians, who were strengthened by these support, increased the dosage of pressure on Mus and the surrounding locals, tried to overwhelm the Muslim people through the massacres and make massacres.
Yazar isimleri: ['Elçin NECİYEV']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Tarih ve Gelecek Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jhf/issue/72784/1173970
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2645077
