Makale Başlığı: Opinions of Physiology Postgraduate Students and Residents About Physiology Education in Medical Faculties in Turkey
Özet: Aim: Physiology postgraduate students (PPGS) and residents of physiology in Turkey contribute to the physiology education of medical faculty students while continuing their education. This study aimed to identify the opinions of PPGS and residents on physiology undergraduate education in medical faculties.Methods: The questionnaire consist of Likert-type, multiple-choice and open-ended questions was applied to the PPGS and residents via online between 08.10.2020 and 09.15.2020. The questionnaire consisted of four parts, including questions about socio-demographic information of participants, theoretical physiology lectures and physiology practices given to medical faculty students, and questions about the contribution of PPGS and residents in physiology education. Those who did not answer the socio-demographic information part and half of the questionnaire were excluded, there was no obligation to answer every question. The data were evaluated using the PASW program. Percentage, frequency, Chi-Square and Fisher-Freeman-Halton tests were used for statistical analysis. Results: Seventy-one volunteers (17 residents, 28 doctorates and 26 masters students) participated in this study; 51% were doing thesis and 42% were in the pre-thesis period. 30% of the volunteers were in the academic staff in the physiology departments. It was determined that 15% of the participants had pedagogical training and 83% were willing to have pedagogical training. All the participants stated that the learning objectives should be explained in the theoretical lectures, the theoretical lectures should be explained by associating them with professional practices and examples (97%) and including the contribution of physiology knowledge to their professional life (100%). Doctoral students found distance education in theoretical lectures more applicable than master students (p=0.025). Most of the participants stated that simulated patients should be used for physiology practices (83%), feedback from PPGS and residents regarding the conduct of practice courses (97%) and the involvement of PPGS and residents in physiology practice courses positively affect the quality of physiology education in the medical faculty (78%). However, a large part of the participants (82%) thought that the time that postgraduate students, who have to work in different jobs in order to earn financial income, would allocate for physiology education to medical school students was limited. Conclusions: It has been determined that PPGS and residents have a high awareness of current learning methods and were eager to have pedagogical education. The opinions of PPGS and residents can contribute to the planning of the future of physiology education, while providing feedback on current physiology education.
Yazar isimleri: ['Esra AKBAŞ TOSUNOĞLU', 'Albena GAYEF', 'Enver ARSLAN', 'Selma Arzu VARDAR']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Tıp Eğitimi Dünyası
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ted/issue/72238/1028854
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2101330
