Makale Başlığı: Using Illustrations As A Factor For Creativity In Preschool Children's Books
Özet: Books, one of the basic tools of child development; first of all, they come into play in the process of getting to know the pre-school child herself/himself and her/his environment. The fact that the time the child spends with the book will indirectly return in the form of learning and research habits attracts our attention as another important gain for development. Of course, in order for such important developments to occur, first of all, the child must be acquired and the interest must be directed to the book. At this point, illustrations, which are as important as the content, come into play. The illustrations in the children's book are familiar elements from her/his language. It is important to evaluate the illustrations as an element that develops imagination and aesthetic view. In this way, an artistic orientation can be formed in the child, as well as opening the doors of multi-directional thinking and ultimately, creativity can also be triggered. It is seen that the person who illustrates the content of the book has a very important role in gaining all these targeted acquisitions. As a result of the illustrator's transfer of her/his own unique look, feel and education to practice, the way for creative vision can be opened. Here, the following point should be mentioned: ‘How to strike a balance between the expectations of the target audience and the development doctrine and the illustrator's own knowledge’. This work; It aims to identify the applications that are included in the illustrations and that are expected to support creativity, through the examples in the last period preschool children's books published in Turkey.
Yazar isimleri: ['Cem KARA']
Yayın Yılı: 24 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: STAR Sanat ve Tasarım Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/stardergisi/issue/70327/1030104
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2105836
