Makale Başlığı: In the Process Going to The Cıty State of Medina, Political and Socıal Factors Playing Role in Success of The Prophet: A Socıologıcal Analysıs in the Concept of Selectıve Affınıty
Özet: Prophets are sent in environments of conflict and chaos. Equipped with obligatory attributes such as reason, intelligence, good morals, trust, virtue and notification, features such as divine order, leadership, charismatic authority, effective rhetoric; Thanks to lofty purposes such as forbidding evil, calling for good and aiming at human happiness, they fight falsehood with the revelation and help of Allah and re-establish the right. Although the prophets are supported by miracles, they primarily act within the framework of Sunnatullah in their invitation and fulfilling their duties. For this reason, they make every effort, take precautions, resort to human means, in short, take social reality into account.However, the appropriateness of the current political, economic, religious and social conditions supports the prophets in fulfilling their mission and accelerates the positive process. For example, the political, religious and social structure in Mecca is extremely corrupt; The fact that people were in conflict, competition and unrest had increased the number of those who wanted to get rid of this order and accelerated the expectation for a savior. When the events such as the migration and the conquest of Mecca are evaluated by considering these historical conditions and background, more accurate interpretations can be reached.However, the fact that the Messenger of Allah realized a more faith-based revolution in Mecca, and in Medina, he succeeded in a restructuring movement in the form of a city-state where he could apply the Islamic rules, in sociology, the roles of "selective affinity” and “compatibility", which means that the needs and goals of both groups that would come into solidarity, match each other should not be overlooked.This article aims to make a sociological evaluation based on examples from the early Islamic history that the Islamic revolution carried out by the Prophet in 23 years and prophethood life had an important role in the conformity of physical, social, historical and geographical conditions as well as divine assistance. For this, first of all, establishment of a city state in Medina by the Prophet  and his success in the Islamic revolution will be evaluated through the concept of charismatic authority that the Prophet has and was named by Max Weber. Our study is limited to Age of Bliss in the context of selective affinity-harmony and charisma concepts
Yazar isimleri: ['Büşra KUTLUAY ÇELİK']
Yayın Yılı: 2 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: İslami İlimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/islamiilimler/issue/73674/1213888
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2809935
