Makale Başlığı: Opinions of nursing students on clinical practices
Özet: Aim: The aim of this study was to determine the views of nursing students on clinical practices. Method: The population of the cross-sectional study consists of second, third and fourth year students (N=695) studying at a state university in the south of Turkey between 20 December 2019 and 15 January 2020, and the sample  was  consisted  of   252 students. Data were collected by Personal Information Form and Nursing Students' Views of Clinical Practice Questionnaire. Analyzes were evaluated with percentage, frequency, mean, standard deviation and Pearson Chi-square test. Results: The mean age of the students was 21.04±1.32. It was determined that the first reason for choosing the nursing profession was the opportunity to find a job easily (64.7%). 58.7% of the students stated that they had problems with the instructor during clinical practices. The expectations of the students from the instructors in clinical practice were determined as explaining the cases with appropriate examples in the clinic (98.8%), not criticizing the student at the bedside (98%), and displaying a fair approach (98%). It was determined that there was a statistically significant weak correlation between gender and choosing the nursing profession due to easy job finding, good income and family desire (p<0.05). It was found that there was a statistically significant weak correlation between choosing the nursing profession due to the desire to find a job easily and helping people and their grade levels (p<0.05). There was a statistically significant weak correlation between the patient's willingness to perform treatment and care practices together with the instructor during clinical applications and their grade level (p<0.05). In addition, it was determined that there was a statistically significant weak correlation between the status of experiencing problems with the instructor during clinical applications and age and class levels (p<0.05). Conclusion: It is recommended that faculty members demonstrate an understanding- based approach to students in clinical education, engage in interactions that increase students' motivation, and make student evaluations according to objective criteria. Student nurses should be supported by learning models that include appropriate clinical learning opportunities and experiences
Yazar isimleri: ['Hilal ALTUNDAL', 'Ladin YAĞTU', 'Nazlı Can DENİZHAN', 'Gamze GÜNEŞLİ', 'Mualla YILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Mersin Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mersinsbd/issue/71427/972603
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1885115
