Makale Başlığı: Tourism in Turkey with Priority of Planning and Policy
Özet: Planning and policy development in tourism is increasing with its significance day by day. The tourism industry is capable of capturing the dynamic reaction of multiple intertwined elements over time. Therefore, tourism management is the product of a multidimensional and complex system due to its commitment to customer satisfaction and preference, its vulnerability, and the numerous interactions between its sectors. Issues of tourism planning, policy, and management attract the attention of tourism researchers to an increasing extent both in the world and in Turkey. The tourism industry, which is directly related to the macro and micro economic policies of the countries, is considered as a balanced development tool in developing countries such as Turkey. Recently, cultural tourism and culture-based industries constitute an important part of the tourism industry in the world. However, Turkey has not been able to transform its existing cultural treasure into a good to attract foreign tourists. The aim of this study is to evaluate what has come to the fore in determining Turkey’s tourism priorities for the last half-century in the planning and development of the Turkish tourism industry and to make suggestions on what new forms can be prioritized. For this purpose, a systematic literature review was made, the studies were analyzed, and the archeological cultural heritage wealth and archaeotourism potential of Turkey, which are among the competitive attractions in the “Atlas Cultural Tourism,” were focused on. It has been observed that this form of tourism has not found any place in national or regional development plans in Turkey’s tourism development policies. It is foreseen that this area, which is relatively new in Turkish and the world tourism literature, should be a planning priority for Turkish tourism. Therefore, the study aims to shed light on Turkey’s significant cultural heritage values to provide different levels of strategic and operational policy development tools to tourism decision-makers and regulators. Recommendations were made on setting priorities to promote a holistic understanding of the Turkish tourism industry’s perception of destinations and to assist in the development of more effective policies.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hasan Ali ERDOĞAN']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Karamanoğlu Mehmetbey Üniversitesi Edebiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/efad/issue/70150/1121548
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2448145
