Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Social Appearance Anxiety on Communication Skills in Adolescents
Özet: In its most general definition, social appearance anxiety is the belief that one's appearance will be negatively evaluated by someone else. Today, a negative belief about physical appearance has become one of the most important barriers to communication. In the communication process, the individual tries to influence people with his effective speech, behavior, and appearance. In the meantime, the individual's timid behavior as a result of experiencing anxiety by thinking about what perception he leaves on people hinders the effective communication process. Therefore,  this study, it is aimed to examine the relationship between social appearance anxiety, which affects the individual performance and thoughts of adolescents, and communication skills, which enable to establish healthier relationships with people, to investigate the role of social appearance anxiety in affecting communication skills, if any, and to contribute to the relevant literature. The relational survey model was used in the study, and the sample consisted of 585 high school students studying in the provinces of Istanbul and Niğde in the 2021-2022 academic year. Personal information form, social appearance anxiety scale, and communication skills inventory were used as data collection tools. Descriptive statistical analyses, t- test,  and one-way ANOVA were used in the analysis of the data. As a result, it was seen that communication skills and social appearance anxiety of adolescents did not show a significant difference according to the type of school, class, socioeconomic level of the family, and educational status of the parents, while the social appearance anxiety levels of female students (X=41.54) were higher than the social appearance anxiety levels of male students (X=35.33). ) was found to be higher. Communication skills were generally found to be low, and no significant relationship was found between students' social appearance anxiety and communication skills. When we look at the literature, it is seen that there are a very limited number of studies that deal with social appearance anxiety and communication skills and examine their relationship with each other. For this reason, new studies may be important in terms of shedding light on this area.
Yazar isimleri: ['Halime AKARSU', 'Merve DEMİRPENÇE']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Necmettin Erbakan Üniversitesi Ereğli Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/neueefd/issue/70889/1117743
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2432506
