Makale Başlığı: Nihâlî's petition to Kanunî to undertake a pilgrimage to Mecca, in which he praises the holy city
Özet: Mecmuas or pamphlets, treatises or journals, written in poetic or prose form, are works that have been better understood in recent years thanks to numerous studies and are of great importance in the history of literature. We can gather information about the poets whose works we are analysing that are not included in their diwans by consulting the mecmuas, from which we also learn that there are various copies of many poets and diwans whose names are not mentioned in the tezkires (memoranda). Furthermore, the poems of some poets who could not organise a diwan during their lifetime can be compiled from the mecmuas and poems collected in scattered form to organise diwans. Diwan literature is very rich in terms of literary genres, one of which is known as arzı- hâl (petition). As a literary genre, it refers to a poetic or prose work in which the poet describes his situation, makes various requests or addresses his complaints to a person who is in a certain position and can do the poet a favour or help him. Although these petitions are usually written in prose, one can also find some that are written in verse, for example as panegyric, small masnawi or stanza in diwans. One of the examples of this genre was written by a poet who lived in the 16th century and bore the pseudonym Nihâlî. The poem in question is registered in the mecmua with inventory number NEKTY03563 in the Rare Works Library of Istanbul University. The first part of the poem, written in panegyric verse, was composed in the genre of city poems. In this part, the poet discusses and praises the holy city of Mecca with its various aspects. In the second part of the panegyric, the then Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent is praised and then the request for pilgrimage is made. In our study, we have analysed Nihali's poem, which is written in the style of a petition, both in terms of its form and content. In addition, we have endeavoured to contribute to research in the field of diwan literature by including the translated text of the petition at the end of our study.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1193048
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2724609
