Makale Başlığı: Effect of Zoledronic Acid Treatment on Cell Adhesion Molecules in Prostate Cancer Stem Cells
Özet: Although the diagnosis and treatment of prostate cancer has made a progress, the disease remains fatal for some cases. Every step taken to save patients from death helps to approach the goal but there are still many issues that need to be investigated to reach a result.With the discovery of stem cells, the importance of these cells for human health has been understood and studies on how to use them in treatment have gained great momentum. In the following years, the concept of Cancer Stem Cell has emerged. It has been shown that these cells have stem cell characteristics but metastasize within the tumor tissue. They can cause recurrence after treatment or develop resistance to treatment. The other group of cells with rootedness is the non-cancer stem cell group and are cancer cells that respond to conventional cancer treatment. Adhesion molecules are of great importance in the cancer metastasis and invasion into the surrounding tissue. Studies have shown that adhesion molecules has great importance spesifically in multi-drug resistance and epithelial-mesenchymal transition.The aim of this study is to examine the effect of zoledronic acid application on prostate cancer stem cells on adhesion molecules, which have an important role in the metastasis development process. For this purpose, zoledronic acid treatment was applied to cancer stem cells isolated from DU145 human prostate cancer cell line using a flow cytometry device and CD133/CD44 surface markers. Changes in cancer stem cells have been investigated in terms of adhesion molecules. The results showed that there was a significant decrease in the number of cancer stem cells after zoledronic acid treatment and this application led to significant changes in CD44, ITGB1, CD29, LAMB1, LAMB3, LAMC1, SPP1, TGFB1, TGFB1, TIMP2, ADAMTS1, ITGB5.In this study, it has been shown that zoledronic acid administration in-vitro has a suppressive effect on cancer stem cell adhesion molecules and that this drug may be used in the treatment of prostate cancer in clinical use in further studies.
Yazar isimleri: ['Burak Cem SONER', 'Eda AÇIKGÖZ', 'Gülperi ÖKTEM', 'Çağ ÇAL']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Uludağ Üniversitesi Tıp Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/uutfd/issue/72578/1137962
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2515730
