Makale Başlığı: Comparison of The Personal Characteristics of Young Adults and Their Mothers with Toilet Training Experience and Toilet Habits
Özet: Background-Purpose: Individuals' future lives can be influenced positively or negatively by the toilet training they receive as children. The purpose of this study was to compare the personality traits of young adults and their mothers, as well as their toilet training experience and toilet habits. Method: The study uses a descriptive, cross-sectional design to look for a relationship between young adults and their mothers between February and May 2020. The study's sample consists of 516 participants (263 young adults and 263 mothers) who meet the inclusion criteria. The Information Form and the Cervantes Personality Scale were used to collect data. For data analysis, descriptive statistics, Kruskal Wallis, Mann Whitney U, and Spearman correlation tests were used. Findings: It observed that 86.7% of the young adults had a history of urinary tract infection, 50.9% had trouble going to the toilet outside their usual place of residency (home), and the type of toilet (water closet/squat toilet) was also effective in this situation. It was determined that one-third of them always washed their hands before going to the toilet and 27.4% paid attention to attention to wash vulva first and then the anus. The study also revealed a relationship between the personality traits of the young adults and their constipation history and the use of punishment/reward methods in toilet training. Conclusions: The right approach to problem-solving during toilet training can help people develop more consistent personalities in their later lives. It is clear that there is a lack of health education in this area because mothers primarily perform toilet training by utilising social support and peer experience. The eradication of health issues caused by improper urination practises can be facilitated by positive personality traits. Mothers' personalities can affect how well their children learn to use the restroom, and data analysis was done using their children's personalities.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zeynep ÖLÇER', 'Ayse CAL']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Journal of Family Medicine and Primary Care
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tjfmpc/issue/72693/1118572
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2436057
