Makale Başlığı: Effectiveness of Individual and Classroom-Based Digital Technology Use in Primary Mathematics Teaching: A Meta-Analysis Study
Özet: Individual and classroom-based digital technology use in primary mathematics teaching is a common practice. However, a definite conclusion on the effectiveness of these two different digital technology uses has not been reached yet. Accordingly, the current study aims at comparing the effects of individual and classroom-based digital technology use in primary mathematics teaching on academic achievement. For this purpose, a meta-analysis study was designed. Studies were selected by searching for the pre-determined keywords in the pre-determined databases. A total of 18 studies met the study criteria. Twenty-three different effect sizes were obtained from these studies. Only studies conducted in Turkey were examined. The data obtained from these studies were coded using a coding sheet prepared by the authors. The effect sizes were calculated by Hedges' g measure using the random effects model. The data were analyzed by a Comprehensive Meta-Analysis program. The analysis results indicated that the effect size of individual and classroom-based digital technology uses in primary mathematics teaching on academic achievement is g=1.725 and g=1.613, respectively. Based on these findings, it can be argued that both individual and classroom-based digital technology use have a very high impact on increasing mathematics achievement in primary schools.  Although the difference in effect sizes is minor, individual digital technology use was found to be more effective than classroom-based digital technology use. Using the findings of the current study, the use of individual and classroom-based digital tools can be recommended to increase academic achievement in primary mathematics.
Yazar isimleri: ['Feyyaz ÖZTOP']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Türk Eğitim Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/goputeb/issue/73270/1083099
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2291057
