Makale Başlığı: Suggestions for Institutional Model in Spiritual Counseling: Examples of Ahi Evran Personal Development Academy & Fütüvvet Spiritual Counseling and Care Center
Özet: The understanding of Akhism founded by Ahi Avran in Anatolia, requires gradual progress on the way to becoming a perfect human being, as in the levels of the nafs. This progress also expresses the level of 'self-actualization' that the science of psychology aims to reach. Akhism is the practical application of the psychology of the nafs which has gained great importance in recent years in society and social structure. The idea of Akhism is based on mysticism and futuwwa. Therefore, it is important to dwell on the concept of futuwwa. Futuwwa, which is the basis of Akhism, is a lifestyle based on self-purification, good morals and generosity, and a lifestyle expressed as altruism which commands preferring to prioritize wellbeing of others. In the psychological context, the concept of futuwwa embodies the kindness therapy that includes outcomes such as overcoming the distress experienced by the person due to anxiety and depression, getting rid of mental stagnation, self-actualization, and that has become widespread in developed countries in recent years. In realization of the approach of kindness therapy, helping others financially or emotionally according to their own strength and means and doing acts of kindness provide psychological relief for people who have problems such as uneasiness, unhappiness, meaninglessness and loneliness. Sociotherapy, which is also called sociological therapy and defined as a supportive therapy approach based on arranging one's environment by making interpersonal arrangements to help one another, has gained wide interest in recent years. The sociotherapy approach goes beyond the individual-oriented studies of psychotherapy with its "interpersonal" dimensions and interactions. Sociotherapy is a process in which the group members as well as the therapist perform certain roles and functions in the treatment process, and heal the others while they heal themselves. In this context, two distinct model proposals are mentioned. First one is Ahi Evran Fütüvvet Personal Development Academy, which was established with the aim to bring futuwva spirit to commercial institutions based on deepening in profession and material-spiritual solidarity in the development of Turkish industry; second, the therapeutic practice called khayr-hasanāt therapy in psychology of nafs approach; Fütüvvet Spiritual Counseling and Care Center Model, which allows individuals who experience problems such as uneasiness, unhappiness, meaninglessness and loneliness to help one another in difficult situations and to do good deeds for free.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa ATAK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Manevi Danışmanlık ve Rehberlik Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tmdrd/issue/71039/1050077
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2163511
