Makale Başlığı: EXAMINING THE LEVEL OF HEALTH LITERACY AMONG INDIVIDUALS SUFFERING FROM CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE
Özet: Objective: Health literacy is important for health protection, prevention of diseases, effective treatment of diseases and improvement of quality of life. This study was conducted to determine the level of general health literacy of individuals with CVD. Method: This descriptive study was conducted with 440 patients who were admitted to the cardiology clinic/polyclinic. The data of the study were collected by using Patient Identification Form and Adult Health Literacy Scale. Results: The mean total score of the scale was found to be 12.79 (3.97). The total score of the health literacy of the individuals differed in terms of gender, educational level, occupation,  income status, smoking, duration of smoking, BMI, the presence of additional chronic disease, whether or not they were on a diet and how well they had adapted to that diet. It was also found that there was a significant correlation  between the total score of the health literacy scale with age,  and  duration of smoking (p<0.01).  Conclusion: Health literacy of the participants score was at a moderate level. In addition, it was determined that the factors such as age, gender, education level, income level, smoking, the presence of additional chronic disease and whether or not they were on a diet all play an effective role in health literacy level of the participants. The low level of health literacy leads to many problems. Therefore, it is advisable to make necessary trainings and evaluate the effectiveness of these trainings in order to increase the level of health literacy of individuals.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sevda KORKUT', 'Songül KARADAĞ', 'Cansu YILMAZ', 'Abdurrahman OĞUZHAN']
Yayın Yılı: 3 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: YOBÜ Sağlık Bilimleri Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yobusbf/issue/73664/1115719
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2424002
