Makale Başlığı: Floods in Mecca from the Age of Cahiliyye (Ignorance) to the End of Emevis
Özet: The struggle of human beings against nature is as old as the history of mankind. Human beings have had to struggle against natural disasters as well as harsh natural conditions since the early periods of history. One of the most common natural disasters on earth is flood, which occurs as a result of heavy rains and causes devastating destructions. Floods have many negative material and moral consequences. Floods deeply influence the society psycho-socially with the loss of many lives as well as financial losses. Losses, especially the loss of loved ones, cause deep spiritual effects that will be felt during lifetime. Mecca, where Islam emerged and hosted Kaaba, the qibla of Muslims, has been exposed to many floods in history. When the causes of floods are examined, it can be seen that many factors such as the climate of Mecca, irregular rain regime, sparse vegetation, the establishment of the city in a narrow valley surrounded by mountains are effective. Depending on the precipitation regime, the floods generally occurred due to heavy rains after the dry periods, as a result of the floods, people lost their lives, animals perished, and there was a shortage of food and drinking water. Although various measures, especially the construction of dams, were taken in different periods to protect against the damages caused by flood waters, it is noteworthy that these measures were mostly aimed at protecting the Masjid al-Haram and Kaaba from flood waters. However, the measures taken to protect Mecca from floods were limited due to the city’s location in a narrow valley. In addition to the negative consequences of floods, there were also positive results such as people taking refuge in Allah, repenting of evil and sins, giving themselves more to worship and eliminating drought due to the fear they caused. In addition, floods had an impact on literature at the time they occurred, and many poems were written about floods. In this study, seven floods, which were experienced in the historical process from the period of Jahiliyya to the collapse of the Umayyads in Mecca and identified in the sources, are examined
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Turcology Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/turcology/issue/73283/1196747
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2739791
