Makale Başlığı: Pre-Service Teachers’ Awareness of Mind Relaxation Techniques in Students
Özet: The switch to distance education due to compulsory reasons has highlighted the issues such as e-learning, online learning, digital programming and learning. This way of learning can affect students negatively from time to time. Intensive focus and concentration on digital screens strain students’ minds. The research included the level of knowledge of pre-service teachers on the techniques for listening to students’ minds. The research is essential for pre-service teachers to become aware of mental relaxation techniques for effective and efficient learning by considering the students’ mental structures. In the spring semester of the 2019-2020 academic year, 18 volunteer senior pre-service teachers who took the course of learning to learn in the classroom education department constitute the research sample. The study was conducted using the case study design, one of the qualitative research methods, and the easily accessible sample, one of the purposeful sampling types. The research data were collected using a semi-structured interview form developed by the researcher online and analysed using the content analysis method. The study is limited to the sample group and the measuring tool. According to the results, pre-service teachers perceive students’ mental fatigue from negative indicators reflected in their behaviour and primarily involve mind-relaxing activities other than the course content. As a result, it is recommended that pre-service teachers are informed about the indicators concerned by the students’ minds begin to get tired, and they should be taught about the mind-relaxing techniques including in their course content.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nida BAYINDIR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: İnformal Ortamlarda Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jrinen/issue/70835/960268
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1852770
