Makale Başlığı: The Relationship Between the Transformational Behaviors of Managers with Organizational Silence and Organizational Justice
Özet: The main purpose of this study is to determine whether there is a relationship between the transformational leadership behaviors of managers and organizational silence and organizational justice, and to determine the direction and strength of the relationship if there is a relationship between them. Moreover, the effect of managers' transformational leadership behaviors on organizational silence and organizational justice is also examined in this study. Therefore, the current research contributes to the related field by addressing the variables of transformational leadership, organizational silence and organizational justice. The changing of environment which the organizations are located in, technological, economic and cultural changes force organizations to change. With this situation, there is a need for leaders to manage change in organizations. These developments have led to the emergence of transformative leadership theory. The concept of transformational leadership is a concept that emerged in the last quarter of the twentieth century and is also used in the literature as transformational or transformative leadership. Organizational silence is defined as employees not expressing or hiding their work-related concerns, ideas and thoughts knowingly. Organizational justice refers to the positive perception of justice formed within the organization by employees feeling that they are respected and valued thanks to a fair management. The research consists of the process that analyses the data taken from 478 employees working in a selected Metropolitan Municipality in the Eastern Anatolia Region with the survey method. According to the results, it is observed that the transformative leadership behavior of the managers has a positive effect on organizational justice and a negative effect on organizational silence. It is determined that there is a negative relationship between the transformational leadership behavior of managers and organizational silence, and a positive relationship with organizational justice.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nihal SENGER', 'Fatih KARCIOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 5 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: EKEV Akademi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sosekev/issue/72929/1166276
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2613186
