Makale Başlığı: AN ASSESSMENT ON THE EFFECT OF JOB ASSURANCE ON TRADE UNION ASSURANCE AND THE LEGAL PROTECTIONS PROVIDED BY THE UNION GUARANTEE
Özet: Trade union organizations are of great importance for the rights struggle of the workers. For this reason, workers need to organize and act together. However, it is not always possible for workers to be organized by acting together. Because sometimes different circles take various steps to prevent workers from organizing. Especially, employers can use various arguments to prevent workers from organizing. For this reason, employers interfere with the union preferences of the workers or try to de-unionize the workers. In fact, some employers dismiss workers because of their trade union preferences. For these reasons, the union rights of the workers are guaranteed. Because trade union rights and freedoms are based on trade union guarantees. Accordingly, the restriction of trade union rights and freedoms is unacceptable. In that case, it is wrong to put workers under pressure for trade union reasons. It is out of the question for someone else to interfere with the union preferences of the workers. In this context, workers are free when joining and leaving the trade union. For this reason, it is not possible to discriminate on the basis of trade unions in the recruitment, continuation of the employment relationship and termination of the employment contract. In this study, an answer has been sought to the question of what kind of protection the trade union guarantees provide to the workers. In this way, research was conducted on the effect of trade union guarantees on the organization of workers. In the case, the protection provided by trade union guarantees is of great importance in terms of both legal and job security.
Yazar isimleri: ['Atanur KARAAHMETOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Toplum Ekonomi ve Yönetim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/teyd/issue/73560/1138843
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2518877
