Makale Başlığı: RISK ASSESSMENT IN A READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT LOCATED IN THE EARTHQUAKE ZONE
Özet: Ready-mixed concrete sector came to the fore with the acceleration of the construction industry and has made significant growth in recent years in Turkey. With this growth, the number of production and working workers increased and the sector-specific occupational health and safety gained importance. Ready-mixed concrete production is in the dangerous class in the Workplace Hazard Classes Notification on Occupational Health and Safety. Ready-mixed concrete sector has its own risks in terms of occupational safety. Employees in this sector are faced with factors such as dust and chemicals during the production of ready-mixed concrete. Therefore, ensuring occupational safety is an important problem for the industry. The aim of the study is to evaluate the dangers and risks that may be encountered during the production stage of a ready-mixed concrete plant located in an earthquake zone. For this purpose, risk assessment was made using the preliminary hazard list, preliminary hazard analysis and Fine Kinney method. 27 hazards in the preliminary hazard list analysis, 34 hazards in the preliminary hazard analysis and 38 risks with the Fine Kinney method were identified and graded. Causes and effects of hazards, risks, initial and post-measure risk indexes were determined and recommendations were made. It was determined that the risks with the possible risk degree were the highest in the relevant business. It was seen that the establishment on the earthquake fault line and considering the functional capacity and differences were important in the risk assessment, It was once again determined that insufficient OHS training, employing unsuitable people and noise were significant risk.
Yazar isimleri: ['Saliha ÇETİNYOKUŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2021
Dergi ismi: İSG Akademik
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/isgakademik/issue/60198/892309
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1622063
