Makale Başlığı: Prognostic significance of the optic nerve sheath diameter in acute respiratory failure
Özet: Purpose: The primary aim of this study was to determine the role of the optic nerve sheath diameter (ONSD) measured using ultrasonography in the differentiation of hypoxemic respiratory failure and hypercarbic respiratory failure. The secondary aim was to determine the value of ONSD in predicting the clinical outcome in hypercarbic patients.Materials and Methods: Non-traumatic adult patients presenting with dyspnea were included in this study. Arterial blood gas and concurrent ONSD measurements were obtained from all patients included in the study during presentation and at the second hour of treatment. The patients were divided into two groups - hypoxic and hypercarbic respiratory failure. An equivalent number of healthy volunteers were enrolled as the control group. Result: Mean ONSD values were 3.8±0.2 mm in the 24 patients with type 1 respiratory failure, 5.2 ± 0.5 mm in the 25 patients with type 2 respiratory failure, and 3.9±0.3 mm in the healthy controls. The ONSD of the hypercarbic patients was statistically significantly greater than that of the hypoxic patients and healthy volunteers. The ONSD of the hypercarbic patients was 5.2±0.5mm at baseline and 4.4±0.6 mm after treatment, the difference being statistically significant. However, the difference in ONSD was not statistically significant in predicting hospitalization and mortality. Conclusion: Sonographically measured ONSD may be an effective parameter in the differential diagnosis of type 1 and 2 respiratory failure. ONSD values changed significantly with treatment in patients with type 2 respiratory failure.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Göktuğ EFGAN', 'Zeynep KARAKAYA', 'Adnan YAMANOĞLU', 'Ahmet KAYALI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Cukurova Medical Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cumj/issue/72549/1128786
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2478284
