Makale Başlığı: THE METHOD OF ORAL HISTORY IN HISTORY RESEARCHES AND EXAMPLES FROM ORAL HISTORY ARCHIVES
Özet: Among the qualitative research approaches, the science of history is mostly based on the narrative research approach along with the areas such as social sciences; literature, sociology, linguistics and educational sciences. Oral history study is exercised in history researches, as qualitative data source in many studies especially on which are dealing with most modern periods. Oral history studies have significant differences which should be distinguished from the interview and survey methods of qualitative research. This difference emerges as a result of the ideographic feature of the science of the history and the effort to write historiography as objectively as possible. This study primarily aims to clarify the oral history method by defining these differences and tries to analyze the increasing interest in oral history in recent years and the results of published studies.Oral history method which began to be institutionalized at Columbia University in 1948, led to formation of oral history archives focusing on various subjects through various projects and studies in this institutionalization process. These archives contain important information that will contribute to social sciences research. This study aimed to help researchers by trying to list the archives which can be accessed online in an index.Oral history is both the oldest and the newest form of history, as P. Thompson points out in his book “The Voice of The Past”. Oral history is part of an important change which expands the field and sources of history through interdiciplinary studies. Everything related to daily life and human beings can be the subject of oral history. The primary purpose of oral history is to create a recorded source of life stories and testimonies through audio or video. Due to the fact that memory is fallible, great care and experience are required both in the collection and analysis of data, as inmemories, travelogues or biography studies. Clarification of the method is important in order to ensure that the correct information is reached. The plan of research will start by explaining the development of oral history in the World and Turkey, continue by explaining the methods and differences of oral history and as well as the online directory of oral history archives and will end with the analysis and evaluation of the findings.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gülsüm TÜTÜNCÜ']
Yayın Yılı: 24 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Edebiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/deuefad/issue/73145/1152387
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2569913
