Makale Başlığı: A Research on The Attitude and Purchasing Behavior of Muslim Consumers Towards Products with Halal Logo in Another Muslim Country
Özet: Consumers living in Muslim countries often do not pay attention to the halal logo as they think that the products in their own countries meet the halal requirements. However, Muslim consumers are highly susceptible to purchasing halal products when they go to a non-Muslim country. The halal logo makes it easier for consumers who have this sensitivity to choose halal products. At this point, it is wondered whether the halal logo is effective in the purchasing behavior of Muslims in different Muslim countries. From this point of view, in this study, it is aimed to fill the gap in the literature by investigating the attitudes and behaviors of Muslim consumers towards products with halal logo when they go to another Muslim country. For this purpose, the halal logo knowledge, awareness and attitudes, and halal logo product purchasing behaviors of Muslim international students coming to Turkey, a Muslim country, for university education were examined. The research model developed for this purpose was created by utilizing the knowledge, attitude and practice (KAP) model. Within the scope of the study, data were collected from 396 international students through an online questionnaire using convenience sampling method. The obtained data were analyzed using structural equation modeling (SEM). The investigation revealed that halal logo awareness and attitude toward halal logo products significantly affect halal logo product purchasing behavior. However, information about halal logos is unlikely to have a significant and beneficial effect on the halal logo product purchasing behavior.
Yazar isimleri: ['Volkan TEMİZKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Sosyal Mucit Academic Review
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/smar/issue/70816/1108447
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2394610
