Makale Başlığı: Core Curriculum (CC) of Spinal Surgery: A step forward in defining our profession
Özet: Background: Spine surgery is a widely recognized medical subspecialty for which no formal core curriculum (CC) incorporating knowledge, skills and attitudes has been established so far. Purpose: To establish a core curriculum for spine surgery incorporating knowledge, skills and attitudes. This curriculum is expected to help define spine surgery as a medical specialty and serve as a guide for specific spine surgery training. Study Design: Non-clinical descriptive study Methods: A CC committee was established. This CC committee prepared the CC divided into 5 modules of Basic Sciences, Trauma, Degenerative conditions, Destructive conditions and Spinal deformity. Prepared CC modules were evaluated in a consensus meeting, translated and re-evaluated in a second consensus meeting before being accepted as final. Results: Of the five modules, Subject Headings (18 for Basic science, 10 for Trauma, 5 for Degenerative, 4 for Destructive conditions and 17 for deformity; 50 in total) and specific Subjects, totaling 59 for Basic science, 32 for Trauma, 10 for Degenerative, 23 for Destructive conditions and 41 for deformity, yielding a total of 165 subjects were defined. Learning outcomes and entry and exit criteria were defined for all these subjects. Conclusions: This core curriculum may form the basis of spinal surgery training, defining spinal surgery as a medical specialty and help us spine surgeons to developed better-defined identities. DOI: 10.3944/AOTT.2015.14.0180This abstract belongs to the un-edited version of the article and is only for informative purposes. Published version may differ from the current version.
Yazar isimleri: ['Alpaslan Senkoylu', 'Secil Ozkan']
Yayın Yılı: 3 Haziran 2016
Dergi ismi: Acta Orthopaedica et Traumatologica Turcica
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aott/issue/18258/192478
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/user/project/new
