Makale Başlığı: Foreign Language Use in German and Turkish Magazine Advertisements: A Comparative Analysis
Özet: Advertisements today are influenced negatively by the use of foreign language as a persuasive tool. This is driven by globalization and the expansion of international brands  and  multinational  advertising  agencies.  Advertisers  frequently  use  foreign  languages  to  attract  attention  and  to  evoke  associations  and  internationality.  Foreign  words  and  phrases  in  advertisements  are  defined  as  linguistic  codes  that can be easily distinguished and remembered by individuals because of their distinctive phonological and morphological features. Such foreign words and phrases are emphasized by using various visual codes (e.g., font, point size, uppercase/lowercase letters, and color) as typographic components. The use of foreign language in advertisements is one of the most analyzed subjects in the field of advertising language. This study seeks to examine the use of foreign languages in German and Turkish magazine advertisements. Adopting more linguistic and semiotic approaches, which treat language as a sign and advertisement as a message system, this paper focuses on the growing role of foreign languages in German and Turkish advertisements.  The  corpus  consists  of  the  first  three  online  issues  of  Elle  magazine  published  in  2021  in  Germany  and  Turkey.  The  data  are  first  classified  quantitatively  and  qualitatively  then  analyzed  in  three  steps  applying  linguistic  and  semiotic criteria. The first step involves the linguistic analysis of foreign words and phrases. The second step undertakes a semiotic analysis of the typographic elements employed as visual codes of foreign language usage in advertisements. The third step is devoted to a discussion and comparison of the results of the foregoing analysis.
Yazar isimleri: ['İrem ATASOY']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Alman Dili ve Edebiyatı Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iuaded/issue/70402/1087784
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2309453
