Makale Başlığı: KARAMANOĞLU MEHMET BEY'S SIEGE OF KONYA AND PERSONALITY OF SIYAVUSH
Özet: The Turkish Seljuk State, which was established after the Battle of Manzikert in 1071, and at the end of many years of taking hold and settling in, was able to make itself accepted in Anatolia. This process, which we can describe as the hold on to phase, was crowned with the Battle of Myriokephalon in 1176, and the Anatolian geography began to be called Turkey. In the sultanate of Alaeddin Keykubad I (1220-1237), which is considered as the rising period of the Turkish Seljuk State, significant developments had been made in terms of economic, commercial, military, and political. However, these developments were shaken by the Mongolian attacks, which started from Central Asia and were felt in a wide geography. In the reign of Alaeddin Keykubad I, a set of security measures had been taken to guarantee the territorial integrity of the Seljuk state of Turkey. Although the Mongolian threat was staved for a while through the strong state governance and farsightedness of Alaeddin Keykubad I, the murder of Alaeddin Keykubat I resulted from an atrocious attack and with ascending the throne Gıyaseddin Keyhüsrev II, this danger arose again. In consequence of the Battle of Kose Dag in 1243, the Turkish Seljuk State came under Mongolian domination, first financially, then militarily, and finally its territorial integrity. This situation, which was also admitted mainly by the Seljuk governing of the period, caused revolts to be arranged at times by the Anatolian Turkmens (Turk Ahmet-1249, Oyuz Melik-1249, Ağaç-eri-1256, Beylerbeyi Hatıroğlu Şerafeddin-1276). One of the biggest and most powerful of these revolts was realized due to the alliance of Karamanoğlu Mehmet Bey and Siyavush. Although for a short time, they took possession of the capital Konya and set Siyavush up on the throne of the Turkish Seljuk State and had coins minted on behalf of his name. In addition, this rebellion differs from the others due to the idea of directly seizing the state and achieving the sultanate. Siyavush has been referred to as Jimri regarding the field studies carried out thus far and is broadly accepted as a false prince. We decided to write this study because of rather limited and uncritical research on his princedom. Therefore, we wrote out the study related to the expatriate life of Izzeddin Keykavus II, his sons, and Siyavush. We hope it will be helpful for the field studies.
Yazar isimleri: ['Oğuzhan ÇAKIR']
Yayın Yılı: 12 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Selçuk Üniversitesi Selçuklu Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/usad/issue/72146/1161341
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2593701
