Makale Başlığı: Analysis of a Deep Crisis in the Ottoman-Iran Relationship in the 19th Century: The Issue of Merchant Goods and Debt
Özet: Struggles that had occurred between dynasties who dominated Iran and the Ottoman Empire since 16th century were generally the products of policies, which were built upon who would have called the tune in the East. Safavids, Afshar, Zands and finally Qajars fought against the Ottoman Empire over the problems based upon borders and sects for centuries. While sometimes Dynasties in Iran and from time to time the Ottoman Empire were the winners of these wars, the problems having caused the struggles between both states had been in no period resolved thoroughly. The 19th Century was a century, when two states were besieged not only from the East, but also from the West and the North. Iran, who entered the end stage of this century with a dynasty change, came under the rule of Qajars and were having big disputes with the Ottoman Empire over the issues such as border, tribes, sect and having the ownership of sacred places. The problems of Iranian merchants and the independent behaviors of the Ottoman Pashas who were serving in the East of the Empire were added to the existing problems between the Ottoman Empire and Iran until 1820, when the military struggle between Feth Ali Shah and Sultan Mahmoud II would have begun. These paved the way for deeper crises to arise between both States. Seizure of property in Erzurum, where Iranian merchants had a big guild, and financial relationship of one of the significant pashas of the region, Abdulhamid Pasha with the Serdar (Commander-in-chief) of Revan Hussein Khan, turned into a very serious problem. How these two issues that were carried both into the 1st Treaty of Erzurum and beyond became a crisis, their course and solution are the subjects of this essay. This study has been composed by utilizing Persian, English and Turkish resources.
Yazar isimleri: ['Eralp Yaşar AZAP']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: İran Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iranian/issue/70429/1061191
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2205426
