Makale Başlığı: The Written Sources of Modern Firearm Training in the Ottoman Army and an Evaluation of Mahmud Şevket Pasha's Works in This Field
Özet: The Ottoman administration took European armies as a model in all areas of military modernization. Taking modern armies as a model, both in educational and organizational means, provided the new technology weapons, which were the basic need of these armies, to enter the Ottoman army inventory. Each new weapon brought with it the need for training in the familiarization and use of the weapon. The Ottoman officers trained in modern military schools took part in meeting this need. In addition to playing an active role in weapon purchases, this staff shared their knowledge and experience for the effective use of such weapons. Thus, important works on modern firearms were published. Fenn-i Esliha (The Science of Weapon) books, one of these works offered to the use of military students and officers, contained general information about all firearms used in the Ottoman army. In addition to Fenn-i Esliha books, manuals written specifically for a weapon or a model also played a significant role in familiarizing new weapons. Mahmud Şevket Pasha, who gained serious experience in firearms with his duties and later rose to the position of grand vizier, was also one of the officers who penned his experiences. He had a book called Fenn-i Esliha as well as his three of other works were aimed at introducing Mauser rifles. These works containing detailed information on rifles were also supported by images. These three publications, from which the enthusiasts can access extremely specific and technical information, were among the most comprehensive examples of the firearm training literature of the Ottoman army.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ali Serdar METE']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Sosyal Bilgilerde Yeni Yaklaşımlar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sbyy/issue/70415/1106719
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2387532
