Makale Başlığı: Determination of the Effect of the Hemodialysis Device on the Storage Conditions of the Prepared Medicine in Terms of Heat
Özet: Introduction: Many drugs are administered to patients receiving hemodialysis treatment during treatment. Health professionals should ensure their safety and patient safety during drug administration or other medical interventions and take the necessary precautions for this. Purpose: In this study, it was aimed to see in which position the temperature of the drug is more appropriate (<25oC) to the manufacturer's instructions, from the preparation to the application of the drug. This study was conducted to see the most effective nursing drug application in terms of heat.Method: The drug, whose active ingredient is Levocarnitine, has been used. After the drug is drawn into the injector for use, the compliance of the temperature of the drug with the manufacturer's instructions was examined for one hour in three different situations used in hemodialysis nursing practices. The top surface temperature and room temperature of the hemodialysis device were also monitored.Results: The temperature of the outer surface of the hemodialysis device was found to be 35.2±0.2oC in measurements. It was found that high temperature affected the drug while it was kept on the device and it was always above 25oC (average 28.2±1.4oC) except for the first 10 minutes of the drug. The temperature of the drug placed in a plastic kidney tub on the hemodialysis device was always above 25oC (average 27.6±1.1oC) except for the first 30 minutes. However, it was determined that the drug, which was kept on the patient's table, could be kept at room temperature (21.9±0.4oC).Conclusion: In hemodialysis nursing practices, it is recommended to administer intravenous drugs without waiting after they are prepared for the injector, and to prefer the patient desk if they are to have waited before the application. In this way, in nursing practice, the drug is given to the patient at a more effective temperature.
Yazar isimleri: ['Harun KANMAZ', 'Aysun ÜNAL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Nefroloji Hemşireliği Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/hemsire/issue/72806/1084127
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2295103
