Makale Başlığı: Examples of Childbirth Education Courses for Migrant Women in The World and Turkey: Literature Review
Özet: The healthcare guidelines were prepared in different languages for migrants in hospitals of European Countries. These guidelines briefly describe referrals in-hospital and important informations and direct migrants to the addresses where they need to go. It has been determined that in America and European countries such as Germany, Switzerland and Austria, cultural identities and mother tongues of immigrant women are less barriers, equality of opportunity is provided to a certain extent, and they contribute to their use of reproductive and preventive health services. Also, they have special childbirth education courses that they conduct, counseling units and information brochures for immigrants. In counseling services, information are related pre-pregnancy care to postpartum depression were given to them. While they are giving these services in the counseling centers, they use intercultural interpreters and telephone lines, which are usually opened by midwives and supported by the municipality, to prevent translation errors. In Turkey, some state hospitals have been started childbirth education for immigrant women with the midwives accompanied by consecutive translation in Arabic since 2017. But unfortunately, these educations interrupted due to the pandemic restrictions. It is thought that the deficiency in immigrant friendly services can be overcome by increasing the available social assistance and allowances for immigrants, providing awareness trainings to increase the health literacy of immigrants, and ensuring that immigrant women have appropriate access to maternity care services. In this review, it was aimed to investigate the childbirth education for immigrant women in the World and Turkey.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zulal SOYLU', 'Hande YAĞCAN', 'Dilek BİLGİÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: İnsan ve Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/johass/issue/73216/1143550
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2537419
