Makale Başlığı: Adult education in national policy documents
Özet: The aim of the present study is to investigate the targets for adult education in the 11th Development Plan, which is one of the national policy documents, and the strategic plan of the Ministry of National Education (MEB) for 2019-2023, and also the study aims to examine the activities for adult education in the 2019 and 2020 MEB administrative activity report, which is the implementation pillar of these policy documents. In the study, firstly, the conceptual framework regarding adult education, development, and strategic plan and administrative activity reports was given, then in the mentioned policy documents the targets for adult education were explained, and lastly, with the administrative activities of the determined targets, the performance of realization in 2019 and 2020 has been revealed. In the research, the document analysis model, which is one of the qualitative research methods, was used in accordance with the purpose of the study. Document analysis, which is a qualitative research method, analyzes written documents in detail and in a system (Watch & Ward, 2013). The information obtained from the 11th Development Plan, the MEB strategic plan, and the 2019 and 2020 administrative activity reports were designed with document analysis. Accordingly, firstly literature review was conducted and related articles, theses, books, journals, reports, and research were investigated. Accessing resources was obtained through scientific journal indexes and databases, online search engines, catalog scanning interfaces of libraries, visits to libraries containing related works, and document requests from libraries containing related works. The obtained information was examined under headings according to their topics, also, in the suggestion, discussion, and the result parts ethical rules were followed. It can be said that there may be a long way for young adults in Turkey to development of verbal, numerical, and problem-solving proficiency rates compared to rates in OECD member countries in terms of development of abilities and sufficiencies. Although the social and economic development goals in the top policy documents in Turkey seem quite comprehensive, the harmony of the strategic plan and the activities are considered insufficient. The pandemic is seen as the most important reason for the failure of the 2020 targets.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yunus POLATOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Studies in Educational Research and Development
Yayın sayfa url: http://serd.artvin.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/70332/1071786
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2247041
