Makale Başlığı: Observance to Context in Tafsir and Its Effect on the Comments on Katlü’l-enfüs (Killing Human Soul)
Özet: One of the elements necessary to understand the text of the Qur’an correctly is the context. Context consists of two parts, external context and in-text context. The general descent environment of Qur’an and the reasons for descent are called external context while the relationship between the chapters, verses and words of the Qur’an is called the internal context. When we look at the literature, it is observed that there has been an increase in the studies advocating the necessity of observing the context in tafsir, especially recently. However, although it is rare, some studies also advocate the necessity of getting rid of the limitation of the context. The purpose of this article is to investigate how the words murder/killing in the Qur’an are explained where they are used together with enfüs/nafs and the effect of the context in these interpretations. In this study, in which the qualitative method was adopted, the tafsirs that stand out with some of their features were subjected to document analysis and the collected data were analyzed and grouped by content analysis. The first meaning that comes to mind in the verses in which the expressions katlü'l-enfüs are mentioned is suicide. However, the use of katlü'l-enfüs in tafsir has been interpreted outside of this meaning. In these explanations, the meaning of “some people killing others” has been given to the expression, mostly due to the historical context. However, it has been seen that the related expressions are given completely out-of-context meanings, especially in ishari tafsir, and the statements of katlü'l-enfüs are explained with expressions such as “leaving lust, killing the soul by cutting tastes” and “sinning”. It has been observed that some commentators, while not ignoring the context, sometimes get rid of the limitation of the context, thus giving the expression the meaning of “doing things that will lead to destruction” and even “killing oneself”. As a result, the accuracy of reaching general provisions such as “there is no prohibition of suicide in the Qur’an” has been questioned by staying under the influence of the context. The study is completed with a conclusion that evaluates the possibility of giving meaning out of context as well as the necessity of observing context in tafsir and suggesting the points to be considered while giving meanings out of context.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nazife Vildan GÜLOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İnsan ve Toplum Bilimleri Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/itobiad/issue/72362/1154805
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2575423
