Makale Başlığı: A Study on the Level of İslamic Beliefs Commitment of the Highschool Students
Özet: Belief principles, the basic acceptances of religions, form the basis of religious feelings and behaviors. Being a member of a religion requires that the individual not have any objections to the principles of that religion. The principles of belief that form the basis of religion constitute one of the teaching areas that religious education emphasizes. In addition to the compulsory religious culture and moral knowledge courses in our schools, faith teaching is also carried out in optional religion courses. It will provide essential contributions to the field in determining the level of adoption of Islamic belief principles of high school students in adolescence when the effort to gain identity intensifies. It will help reveal the role of the religious teaching process and other factors in adopting belief principles, portraying the current situation of belief teaching and guiding belief teaching plans in the future. In this study discussed 12th-grade students' adoption of Islamic belief principles and their relationship with various variables according to the theme. In our research, after removing the faulty and incorrect coding from the data collected with a 14-item belief questionnaire from 500 people studying in the city center of Konya in the 2020-2021 academic year, the remaining data set of 406 people were analyzed using the SPSS 15 program. The suitability of the questionnaire for obtaining a total score was tested with the internal consistency coefficient Cronbach Alpha (α=0.736) and Tukey summability test (F=0.039, p=0.84), and it was determined that it was suitable for obtaining a total score. In addition to frequency distributions, Chi-square, Mann Whitney U, and Kruskal Wallis tests were used in the analyses based on both items and the total score obtained from the questionnaire. According to the findings obtained in our study, in which the relational screening model, one of the quantitative research methods, was adopted, 93% of high school students adopt the principles of Islamic belief, 3% do not, and 4% are undecided. The family is the most influential factor in an institution on students' beliefs. The level of commitment to the Islamic faith of individuals who grew up in religious families is higher than those who grew up in partially less religious families. Those who think that the religious education given at school gives satisfactory answers to their questions about faith are more likely to adopt the principles of Islamic belief than those who are not satisfied with the religious education at school. In addition, there is a significant difference between those who has additional religious education to the school’s curriculum on religious belief outside of school and those who do not, in terms of the level of adopting the principles of belief. Those who were positively affected by the attitudes and behaviors of the teachers of religious culture and moral knowledge had a significantly higher level of adopting the Islamic faith than those who were negatively affected. When the relationship between the independent variables and the total scores obtained from the questionnaire was examined, it was determined that there was a statistically significant difference according to the type of school in which the participants were educated, however, the difference between the groups did not reach a significant level in the comparison made according to gender. When the answers given by the students to the questionnaire items are examined, it is seen that they cannot develop a holistic belief, are undecided on some issues related to the principles of belief, have questions, or are in conflicting positions. It is understood that this contradiction becomes more evident, especially in the points of belief reflected in life. For example, there is a significant difference between the rate of believing that the Qur'an is the word of Allah (92.6%) and the rate of believing that everything in the Qur'an is true (83.7%). In addition, it is understood that when scientific and religious knowledge are brought face to face, belief is shaken, and confidence in religious knowledge decreases. Changes in social life and developments in science and technology cause young people to face different belief problems than previous generations. In this context, faith teaching is expected to meet the needs of the day and produce answers to the questions and issues in the minds of young people.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sibel KANDEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kocatepe İslami İlimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kiid/issue/73811/1170380
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2629884
