Makale Başlığı: Assessment of Seismic Performance of a Historical Masonry Building within The Scope of TBEC-2018 and PDRS-2019
Özet: The seismic performance of masonry buildings, which have a significant place in the existing building stock, should be determined to continue their use, considering today's living standards. Especially it is possible to safely transfer these structures, which can be in cultural heritage, to future generations, by determining the seismic risk accurately and quickly and by repairing and strengthening it when necessary. The earthquake resistant design of new masonry buildings and the determination of the seismic safety of the existing building stock can be made according to the provisions of the current Turkish Building Earthquake Code (TBEC-2018). However, these risk assessments are a long and costly process. However, since these risk assessments are a long and costly process, it is possible to determine the seismic safety of existing buildings in a short time and at a low cost, with the Principles for the Determination of Risky Structures (PDRS-2019). In this study, the seismic performance criteria differences of these two codes related to masonry buildings have been compared. Within this context, the seismic performance of Piyalepaşa Konağı in Kdz.Ereğli has been evaluated as an example. Athree-dimensional analytical model of the building has created according to on-site measurements and observations. It has been analyzed with the calculation methods defined in the regulations, considering the seismic parameters selected specifically for the location of the building. From the completed analysis, displacements and internal forces caused by the building's own weight and earthquake forces were determined, and the seismic performance of the building, determined according to both codes was compared. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Akın TÜRKOĞLU', 'Hilal MEYDANLI ATALAY']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Düzce Üniversitesi Bilim ve Teknoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dubited/issue/73115/992809
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1963826
