Makale Başlığı: Performance, impact and recommendations for video-assisted violin education
Özet: This research was done to investigate the effects of developing technology in the subject violin education within music education. In the study, the students of the control group who took the subject violin course were given violin courses, and the study group students were taken with different and multi-camera angles prepared by the researcher in addition to violin courses, and the course videos containing special effects, which follow the narrative, subtext, stolen note, were prepared. While these videos are being produced, an environment with no image and noise pollution is set in the area where the video was taken, high audio and video quality is used, and custom video preparation programs have been set up and completed. This study uses an unselected pattern with a sontest control group. The study was conducted with 10 people, and 10 people with 20 people to form the control group. As a data collection tool, the researcher used the gradual scoring key prepared by the researcher to evaluate the performance of Mozart’s “Morgen Kommt der Weichnactsmann” tune. The student performance recorded in the video has been evaluated by three experts through the graduated scoring key prepared. In the analysis of the data, the number of participants in the experiment and control groups has been taken into account to use a non-parametric test, the Mann-Whitney U test. The study revealed that the experiment group, composed of the self-violin students who received video support, was more successful than the control group. In the subject violin training, video course research should be developed by further research over the coming years. Violin, music, for the expansion of art education; the displaced province, district, etc. due to developing technology it is recommended to search for video, online (online) training in locations.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yiğitcan KESENDERE']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal for the Interdisciplinary Art and Education
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jiae/issue/72281/1161404
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2593953
