Makale Başlığı: DIGITAL DEMOCRACY IN THE CONTEXT OF TRANSFORMATION OF DEMOCRACY IN MUNICIPALITIES IN TURKEY: A QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
Özet: Innovations in information and communication technologies have significantly affected social, cultural and political fields. In many areas, situations such as needing more information, rapid access and participation have emerged. This situation also affected the position of the citizen in the management process. As a result of the reflection of information and communication technologies in the administration, the development of digital democracy has brought about a transformation in the way citizens approach and communicate with the governing bodies. As a matter of fact, digital transformation has transformed democracy and offered citizens the opportunity to discuss online, participate in management processes and communicate online with managers. All these innovations have contributed to the emergence of practices that will strengthen the manager-citizen relationship in local governments.In this study, some criteria were determined by taking into account the results of the reflection of information and communication technologies on the principles of democracy. According to these three different criteria of digital democracy (e-transparency, e-accountability, e-participation) determined, the websites of 30 metropolitan municipalities and 51 provincial municipalities in Turkey were examined. As a result of the analysis of the websites, semi-structured interviews were conducted with the senior manager of the municipalities that were successful, and it was aimed to reveal the digital democracy profile of the municipalities in Turkey. In addition, in the study, the answer to the question of what stage the municipalities in Turkey are in according to the practices of digital democracy has been tried to be sought.
Yazar isimleri: ['Derya KAMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Dumlupınar Üniversitesi İİBF Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dpuiibf/issue/70376/1125296
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2463587
