Makale Başlığı: The Use Of Embroidery/Color Passing and Derivation Idioms ın Classical Turkish Poetry
Özet: Idioms are language structures that provide the most effective and short way to express the meaning to the addressee. These structures, which were created by making use of literary arts such as metaphor and simile, are widely used in daily language. Idioms are also frequently used in our literary texts. One of the critical judgments put forward about our classical poetry is that it is the poetry of an elite group disconnected from society. Although materials and content it uses. Traces of this can be seen in many studies on proverbs and idioms in the divans of classical poets. Idioms and proverbs have an important side like being national; however, it is also witnessed that the societies of the close culture and geography use similar proverbs and idioms. Especially in the context of classical poetry, our relations with Arab and Persian cultures, which we have in common, have led to the emergence of some similar proverbs and idioms. It is seen that the idioms to pass color and to embroider, which have similar uses in Persian poetry to some extent, are widely used in our classical poetry. These idioms, which are formed depending on the metaphorical deception and mislead meanings of the words color and embroidery, come into use with the auxiliary verbs in question; It also appears with different structures such as color, color, color, color, color hunting. The common aspect of almost all of these idioms is the tricks and deceptions that fortune and lover make in love. In addition to this, it is also used in the sense of cheating and deceiving, but also in the sense of defeating, defeating and killing the person.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ali YILDIRIM']
Yayın Yılı: 16 Mayıs 2022
Dergi ismi: AKRA Kültür Sanat ve Edebiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/akrajournal/issue/69842/1083496
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2292658
