Makale Başlığı: Social and political evaluations on Yâsemîne Hadrâ's novel named es-Sadme
Özet: Narratives are valuable works that shape human life. One of the areas where societies express themselves is the novel. It can be said that the leading narrative of modern times is a novel. The novel has an important place in both modern and post modern narrative. Algeria has an important place in the novel world. One of the Algerian novelists and one of the important messages in the narratives of the world is the real name of Muhammad Mûlsuhûl Yâsemine Hadrâ ՚ (Green Jasmine Flower). One of the messages that the author wants to give to the world, and even most importantly, is the es-Sadme/attack/shock novel written on radical Islamist movements in the world. In this novel, the author wants to express that the innocence of Palestine cannot be explained by means of radical Islamist movements through the wrong practices of Israel. The interesting thing is that the radical Islamist Sheikh, who made Sihem live bombs in the novel, experiences the same fate. With this narrative, the author reveals that the spiral of violence will bring harm to societies instead of benefiting and that one day can hit everyone. In this novel, the narrator-deha reveals the people of the world and the humanity and its fictions with its narrative that it is against all kinds of terrorism. Israel and Palestine, the spiral of violence on both sides, and that it will not be the winner of the right side of the author who wants to be delivered to the right side of the fictions of the author makes you feel that there is Palestine. He also implies that he has fueled this spiral of violence in the author politicians. In addition, the world wants to express that humanity cannot be responded with evil against the evil.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1193068
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2724685
