Makale Başlığı: Semantic fields of visual verbs and considering is seeing conceptual metaphor
Özet: There are two purposes in this study, which are about the semantic fields of the verbs to see and to look in Turkish. The first purpose is to determine the meanings of the verbs to see and to look in Turkish. The second is to figüre out the reason for the metaphoric meaning ‘to consider’. In the first step of the study, the semantic fields of perception verbs were established. These meanings are classified under two categories called physical meanings and semantic extensions outside of these meanings. The classification of Viberg (1984) and Whitt (2010) in physical meanings have been taken into account. In semantic extensions, a Turkish-specific classification was made by taking into account the classification of Ibarretxe Antuñano (1999). Semantic extensions were classified under intellection, social, assurance, and experience groups. A mixed approach was adopted in the analysis, combining corpus data and information in dictionaries. Thus, it is aimed to reach all the meanings in use. In the second step of the study, conceptual metaphor and propery selection processes models were used to determine how the metaphorical meaning ‘to consider’ emerges from the identified meanings. As a result of this, it is stated that the sense of visual is parallel to the mental in terms of cognitive and structural aspects (Sweetser, 1991) and it has been seen that the lexical unit 'to look' can also be expressed in mental domains. In conceptualizations from the physical perception domain to the mind domain, the properties transferred from the source domain to the target domain were determined. Accordingly, the directness, location, voluntary, and evaluation properties of the physical visual domain were determined as the characteristics transferred to the mental domain during the metaphorical processes. In the study, it has been exampled that the semantic extension of 'to look', which expresses the physical perception domain in Turkish, to the meanings belonging to the mental domain is not random.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1188762
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2707145
