Makale Başlığı: Metaphoric Perceptions of Adults on Digital Concepts in Education
Özet: In this study, it is aimed to determine how teachers and teacher candidates perceive the concepts related to technology, which have been used frequently in recent years. In this context, metaphorical perceptions of technology, metaverse, virtual reality, augmented reality, hybrid education and distance education were investigated. The sample of the study, which was prepared in accordance with the qualitative research design, consists of teachers working in the central district and districts of Denizli and teacher candidates studying at a public university. The sample of the study consists of 86 adults. 22 of the participants are teachers, 64 of whom are prospective teachers, 72 of whom are females and 14 are males. The data of the research were collected via the form prepared by the researcher. The questions in the form are framed as “metaverse for me….. because….". In addition, explanations consisting of short sentences about the concepts were also requested from the participants. Research data were analyzed with inductive content analysis. According to the results of the research, it is seen that when adults present metaphors about concepts, they especially refer to their functions. Besides, when the views and metaphors are examined, it could be stated that there are problems regarding the distinction of metaverse, virtual reality and augmented reality phenomena. In general, it can be said that adults' perceptions of technology, metaverse, virtual and augmented reality, distance education and hybrid education are positive. According to the research, especially, the perceptions that socialization problems could be seen in metaverse and virtual / augmented reality applications are remarkable.
Yazar isimleri: ['İbrahim Halil YURDAKAL']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Sınırsız Eğitim ve Araştırma Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sead/issue/73440/1163847
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2603745
