Makale Başlığı: The Function of Art in the Context of Ethical and Aesthetic Values and Cinema
Özet: The close bond of art with people reveals its relationship with ethics and ethical values. The connection of art to ethics causes the "beauty" in art to be associated with the values of "good" and "right". From this point of view, it is expected that the work of art should be structured. Form in art cannot be separated from content. The form of the work of art is the materialization of a certain worldview and an associated morality. The change of life and reality have brought the emergence of new ways of expression in art. Modern art organizes its aesthetic elements in a way that allows for an ethical questioning. This questioning in cinema has created the understanding of modern cinema. Modern cinema, with its contemporary narrative structure, destroys the impression of reality, which is the ideology of cinema and which traditional cinema has adopted. Modern cinema, with its counter-aesthetic understanding, provides the audience with new ways of seeing, allowing for an ethical evaluation. The aim of this study is to reveal the relationship between ethical and aesthetic values in art and cinema, based on the relationship between content and form. An anthropological approach based on the ontology of art has been adopted. While the anthropological approach deals with the connection of the artwork with the human being, the ontological approach enables us to understand the ontological features of it. According to Nicolai Hartmann's ontological analysis method, the artwork is an ontic whole determined by the foreground (real) and the background (unreal). The study investigates the knowledge of ethical values in the artwork, and in cinema specially, and discusses how these values affect aesthetic values stylistically.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatma SERDAROĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Hacettepe Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/husbdergi/issue/73161/1036231
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2130688
