Makale Başlığı: Upregulated mRNA expression of mTOR in surgically resected early stage non-small cell lung carcinoma: a potential molecular targeted therapy
Özet: Background: Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) comprises about 85%of all lung cancers. Although many attempts for early detection and treatment,prognosis of NSCLC is still poor.  Inrecent years the pathways and the genes that play role in lung cancerdevelopment were researched widely. PI3K/AKT/MTOR which is thought to beefficacious in the development of many cancer which controls the expression ofmany genes playing an important role in cell proliferation, metastasis,resistance to apoptosis and angiogenesis. Also the increase in CCND1 expressionwas shown in several cancer types. The aim of this study is to search the mRNAexpression profile of AKT, MTOR and CCND1 genes which has been thought toplay role in NSCLC development, and their expression in different pathologicalstages and histological types of the disease.Materials and Methods: Forty-four NSCLC patients who didn’t get neoadjuvanttherapy were included in this study. The samples from tumor and matched normallung tissue were obtained from resection specimens (lobectomy orpneumonectomy). Total cellular RNA was isolated from the samples. The mRNAexpression levels of AKT1, mTOR and CCND1 genes were measured by quantitative real-time polymerasechain reaction (qPCR). Results:Our findings revealed a statistically significant increase of mTOR expression on mRNA levels (P < 0.05).Although AKT and CCND1 expression slightly increased in malign tissues, thesechanges in the expression were not significant (P > 0.05).  The mRNA expression of mTOR was alsoupregulated and it was statistically significant for early stage disease andadenocarcinoma subtype (P < 0.05). Conclusions: Inhibition of mTOR gene expression at mRNA levelmight be potential target for future treatment strategies of NSCLC.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammet Sayan']
Yayın Yılı: 16 Nisan 2017
Dergi ismi: Current Thoracic Surgery
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/currthoracsurg/issue/28602/304524
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/291837
