Makale Başlığı: Investigation of Visually Impaired Children's Views on the Museum Visited
Özet: Museums facilitate the learning process through their collections that appeal to different senses. This research, it is aimed to examine the opinions of visually impaired children about the museum they visit. The research was carried out in the basic qualitative research design. In the 2018-2019 academic year, necessary permissions were obtained from the Ministry of National Education and the General Directorate of Mineral Research and Exploration. A total of 10 children, including five children who had visited the museum before, and five children who had not visited the museum before, visited the Şehit Cuma Dağ Natural History Museum. During the visit, the children closely examined the tactile materials of the museum. In addition, museum personnel in charge of the children's visit process accompanied them. After the museum visit was completed, the children were interviewed and the data were collected through the interview form prepared by the researchers by taking expert opinions. The obtained data were subjected to content analysis with the help of the MAXQDA program after being transferred to digital media. As a result of the research, the children stated that they had the opportunity to examine the animals, recognize the fossils, and touch the materials in the natural history museum. In the research, it has been seen that children are most affected by touchable materials, and touchable materials are effective in children's liking of the museum tour. In addition, it was determined that the children wanted to visit the museum again. In line with the findings, suggestions for practitioners and researchers were presented.
Yazar isimleri: ['Emin DEMİR', 'Aysel KÖKSAL AKYOL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Müze Eğitimi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jimuseumed/issue/68259/1094483
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2336914
