Makale Başlığı: Analysis on the Problems Encountered in the Application of Transported Education in Primary Education
Özet: The aim of this study is to investigate the studies conducted on the "Transported Education" problems experienced in Turkey by document analysis method, to categorize the existing problems and to reveal the frequency of their being mentioned. In this way, it is to create public awareness that has gained a general perspective by seeing the accumulation of problems. The data obtained by the document analysis method were interpreted with the help of tables. In the evaluation of the data obtained the content analysis technique is used; yet, the study is a descriptive study as it aims to shed light on the existing situation. In the study 21 articles and 12 theses published in the YÖK-National Thesis Center and Dergipark database were scrutinized. The problems encountered in the study were classified into categories such as "transportation", "school-parent relationship", "courses", "nutrition", "adaptation to school" and "economy". It is observed that there are 23 different problems in the transportation category, 8 in the school-parent relationship category, 7 in the lessons category, 7 in the nutrition category, 5 in the school adaptation category, and 5 in the economy category. The category with the most different problems is 'transportation'. It is seen that transported education problems are divided into 6 categories. Frequency of problems reported for transportation category is 121, frequency of school-parent relationship category is 40, problems reported for courses category is 35, frequency of nutrition category is 35, school adaptation category is 25, economy category is 8. 'Taking passengers to transport vehicles' (n 12) is the most frequently cited problem. The other second most mentioned problems with the same frequency in the list are of 'lack of adequate training of service drivers' (n 11) and 'negative effects of climate conditions' (n 11).
Yazar isimleri: ['Menekşe ESKİCİ', 'Maide KÜÇÜKKARIŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Sınırsız Eğitim ve Araştırma Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sead/issue/73440/1163617
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2602860
