Makale Başlığı: The impact of working capital management on financial performance: A study on the aviation sector
Özet: Airline companies constantly need significant amount of working capital as they provide services. Working capital is very important for businesses to carry out their activities in a good way and for companies to fulfill their short-term obligations. The firm’s inability to have the resources for keeping its activities or the business failure to fulfill its obligations will cause the firm to experience serious problems. Financial decisions are generally focused on medium and long-term decisions. Although working capital management is often considered as simple, it is vital to  the  firm.  Especially  companies  operating  in  the  service  sector  should  pay  attention  to  working  capital management. In this study, the  effect of the  working capital ratios on the financial performance indicators was measured.  Panel  data  analysis  was  used  in  the  study. Primarily,  the  validity  of  the  unit and  time  effects  of  the model has been analyzed, and fixed effect and random effect models have been created according to the results of that analysis. In order to determine the model to be used, it it has been decided as a result of the Haussman test and basic assumption tests have been applied on the model. The Driscoll-Kraay estimator was tested and found more suitable and used in this study. As a result of the analysis, it was concluded that there is a strong positive relationship  between  the  net  working  capital  ratio  and  firm  performance  in  addition  the  firms  were  severely affected by the 2008 global crisis and the Covid-19 epidemic.
Yazar isimleri: ['H. Yusuf GÜNGÖR']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Ömer Halisdemir Üniversitesi İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ohuiibf/issue/73154/1074978
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2259099
