Makale Başlığı: Can miRNAs be Used As a Biomarkers in Meningioma’s?
Özet: AbstractPrimary brain tumors are classified as glial or non-glial and benign or malignant. Menenjiomas are common benign intracranial tumors. Although the name meningioma refers to a tumor of the lining of the brain called the ‘Meninx’, it has actually been shown to originate from the spider web-shaped ‘arachnoid’ membrane (arachnoid cover cells). The vast majority of meningiomas are benign, well circumscribed, slow growing and surgically treatable tumors. The degree of resection and histological degree are the most influential factors in the prognosis of meningioma patients. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) classification, the vast majority of menenjiomas are grade 1 (typical/benign), less than 10% grade II (atypical/moderate) and III (anaplastic/malignant) tumors. Menenjioma tumors are pathologically evaluated by taking tissue biopsy. There is no biomarker that can be used for diagnostic and prognostic purposes in blood samples obtained non-invasively. Biomarkers that can be evaluated in non-invasive samples such as serum are needed because biopsy, which is an interventional diagnostic method, can be risky and evaluation is subjective. MicroRNAs are 18-22 nucleotide-long, endogenous, non-protein-coding RNA molecules that negatively regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. In recent years, there has been increasing research on miRNAs as potential biomarkers for various pathological conditions, including tumors. miRNAs can function as oncogenes or tumor suppressors under certain conditions. There is evidence that they play a role in many cellular processes that contribute to tumor formation and development, from proliferation to invasion, from metastasis to angiogenesis. In this review, we aimed to discuss the roles of these molecules in the diagnosis and prognosis of menenjioma, and their potential therapeutic effects.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hasan DAĞLI', 'Özlem GÜLBAHAR']
Yayın Yılı: 2 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Kahramanmaraş Sütçü İmam Üniversitesi Tıp Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ksutfd/issue/73295/1004412
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2008661
