Makale Başlığı: On the Phrase of Hak Çalap in Old Anatolian Turkish
Özet: One of the most important features of languages is that they are in constant motion. The names of God have been used quite differently in Turkish history. It is seen that the word "God" is used in all belief systems of Turks from the oldest written texts of Turkish to the present day. Today, the word God is mostly used in idioms, proverbs, and formulaic expressions. On the other hand, with the acceptance of Islam by the Turks, it is seen that the names of God (for example, Ugan, Bayat) that are currently used in Turkish or the names of God derived from Turkish word roots (for example, İdi, Törütgen) are used. In the meantime, it is understood that the authors know this terminology well, but adopt a language of communication that can be understood by the public, since they rarely use the esmai hüsnâ (99 names of Allah) and the attributes of Allah, which is common in the Islamic belief. With the spread of Islam among the Turks, the names of the Islamic Gods, which the authors know and rarely use, are increasingly understood and used by the public, and these names have begun to be widely used in literary works. In Western Turkish, Old Anatolian Turkish constitutes an intermediate step in the transition to Ottoman Turkish, and this step function is seen in terms of the use of the names of God. In the TV series Hak Çalap (Yuce, Ulu Allah), which is witnessed only in Old Anatolian Turkish texts, the word Hak is both an exclamation and an adjective and a clarification of the signified. In the examples taken from the texts of the period, it is understood that the word Hak (Allah, the truth) used alone, on the one hand, becomes an adjective in the series and means sublime, and on the other hand, it emphasizes and brings to the fore the Islamic belief in God, unlike the pre-Islamic understanding of God.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1192517
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2722515
