Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of fumigant and repellent activity of essential oil from Origanum onites L. (Lamiales: Lamiaceae) against Acanthoscelides obtectus (Say, 1831) (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae)
Özet: Beans are in the first place among legumes in terms of cultivation area and production amount. In addition to being consumed fresh, it is also a preferred product in the food industry as dry. Since it is a cheap source of protein, efforts to increase production and efficiency from the cultivation area have gained speed in our country to ensure that it has a significant place in nutrition. Acanthoscelides obtectus (Say, 1831) (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) is one of the most important pests of beans and causes significant yield losses in stored products. The management of this pest, fumigant is used in the storage. Instead of these chemicals, interest in biopesticides is increased, which can be obtained from more safe, biodegradable plant metabolites. In this study, it was carried out to determine the fumigant and repellent efficacy of phytochemicals in the essential oil content of the Origanum onites plant belonging to the Lamiaceae family, against Acanthoscelides obtectus’a (Say,1831) (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae). which causes serious yield losses in legumes, especially beans, which have an important place in human nutrition and in the global market. The essential oil of O. onites was obtained by microwave-assisted hydro distillation methods. Essential oil components were determined by GC-MS device and the major component was found to be carvacrol (65.33%). It has been determined that the fumigant toxicity of the essential oil composition of O.onites was determined to vary depending on the dose and time, and at the end of 24 hours, 42.50-81.25% mortality was observed against adult individuals of A.obtectus. At the end of 48 hours, it was determined that there were varying mortality rates of 70-98.75%. In the repellent effect experiment, it was determined that the highest rate of increase in the repellent effect against A. obtectus was 57.5% at the dose of 0.842µl/cm2.
Yazar isimleri: ['Didem SAGLAM ALTİNKOY', 'Emine BİLGİNOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 16 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kırşehir Ahi Evran Üniversitesi Ziraat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kuzfad/issue/73921/1195776
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2735850
