Makale Başlığı: The Introduction of Gamification in the Teaching of German as a Foreign Language at Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Nigeria
Özet: Most  Nigerian  students  of  German  are  between  16  and  30  years  old.  This  age  group  tends  to  be  more  interested  in  playing  computer  and  video  games  than  doing their home- and class work with traditional materials such as textbooks and workbooks. Younger students need interesting activities that are fun for them and motivate them to learn and, as a result, make progress and achieve rapid success in their learning. It is therefore surprising that gamification has not yet been introduced into the curricula of Nigerian higher institutions. As a result, there is hardly any research in the field of gamification in foreign language learning in general or its use in the teaching of German in particular. This lacuna in research on gamification in German studies in Nigeria led to the present study, which examines the introduction of gamification into German lessons at Obafemi Awolowo University. The  study  aims  at  initiating  a  targeted  discussion  on  gamification  in  German  studies  and  stimulating  further  scholarly  conversations on the topic. Through this, the possibility of creating a didactic design for the use of gamification in German studies  in  Nigeria  can  be  achieved.  This  study  uses  secondary  data  sources  including  articles,  books  and  reviews  about  gamification  in  education  or  classrooms.  Other  sources  include  websites  and  blog  posts.  These  sources  provide  useful  insights  from  various  studies  on  gamification  and  its  use  in  education,  especially  in  foreign  language  teaching,  which  help  in  drawing  up  suggestions  for  a  successful  introduction  of  gamification  into  the  curriculum  of  Nigerian  universities  especially that of German at the Obafemi Awolowo University in Nigeria. The analysis of the data is based on a descriptive and content analysis.
Yazar isimleri: ['Olajumoke OYEDELE', 'Moses AYANKUNLE']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Alman Dili ve Edebiyatı Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iuaded/issue/70402/1000893
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1995146
