Makale Başlığı: The Effects Of Two Different Degrees Of Lateral-Wedge Insoles On Unilateral Lower Extremity Load Carrying Line In Patients With Medial Knee Osteoarthritis
Özet: Abstract  Objectives: Lateral-wedge insoles are utilized in medial knee osteoarthritis reducing knee adduction moment and medial compartment joint loading. The objective of this study is to assess the effect of 5 and 10 degrees lateral-wedge insoles on unilateral lower extremity load carrying line in patients with medial knee osteoarthritis using the L.A.S.A.R. posture alignment system. Patients and Methods: 20 subjects with diagnosed as having bilateral medial knee osteoarthritis, ≥ 2 Kellgren-Lawrence grade, participated in the study. The laser line projected on the person by the L.A.S.A.R. posture alignment system showed joint load carrying line. The location of the joint load carrying line in static standing with one foot on the force plate was assessed with barefoot, 5 degrees and 10 degrees lateral-wedge insole. Displacement of the load carrying line was measured using a ruler placed tangentially to the patella at the level of joint line. Results: The load carrying lines measured with 5 degree and 10 degree lateral-wedge insoles were significantly laterally located compared to that without wearing insole (p <0,001). 10 degrees lateral-wedge insole caused a significant more lateral shifting of the load carrying line than 5 degrees lateral-wedge insole (p <0,001). Conclusion: Both wedge insoles are found effective in moving of the unilateral lower extremity load carrying line to the lateral. Lateral wedged insoles are biomechanically effective and reduce loading of the medial compartment in patients with medial knee osteoarthritis.  DOI: 10.3944/AOTT.2015.15.0253This abstract belongs to the un-edited version of the article and is only for informative purposes. Published version may differ from the current version.
Yazar isimleri: ['Özlem Köroğlu', 'Evren Yaşar']
Yayın Yılı: 3 Haziran 2016
Dergi ismi: Acta Orthopaedica et Traumatologica Turcica
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aott/issue/18258/192532
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/user/project/new
