Makale Başlığı: The Relationship Between Mother’s Parenting Stress, Family Resilience and Child Rearing Practices During Coronavirus Pandemic
Özet: This study aimed to investigate the relationship between parenting stress, family resilience and child rearing practicesof mothers during the COVID-19 pandemic. The study sample consisted of 303 mothers who were parents of normallydeveloping children aged from 3 to 6 years. Demographic Information Form, The List of Determining Risk Factors,Parenting Stress Scale, Family Resilience Scale and Parents Attitude Scale were used to collect data. PearsonCorrelational Analysis and one way ANOVA were conducted with the Statistical Package of Social Sciences (SPSS).Then a series of hierarchical regression analyses were performed to investigate the predictive power of parenting stressand family resilience on authoritative parenting style. It was concluded that there was a significant negativerelationship between mother’s parenting stress and family resilience levels. Also, a significant positive relationshipbetween mother’s family resilience levels and authoritative parenting has been obtained. In addition, as a result of theanalysis a negative significant relationship between mother’s parenting stress and authoritative parenting has beenfound. Moreover, parenting stress and family resilience were found as significant predictors of authoritative parentingstyle. It can be concluded that the negative effect of parenting stress on authoritative parenting, partially decreasedwith the effect of family resilience. The findings of the research were discussed in the light of the literature, limitations,strengths of the research and suggestions for future studies were presented.
Yazar isimleri: ['Berfin Sude İLDENİZ', 'Gülçin KARADENİZ']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Mart 2022
Dergi ismi: Karadeniz Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ksbd/issue/69152/1055194
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2181788
