Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Oleuropein on the Apoptotic Changes in the  Testicular Tissues of Diabetics Rats
Özet: Diabetics is a chronic metabolic condition that proceeds for a lifetime and has a high incidence and mortality rate. In this study, it was aimed to investigate the effects of oleuropein  OLE  on the apoptotic changes in the testicular tissue caused by Diabetes Mellitus  DM  in diabetic rat model formed with streptozotocin, in which oxidative stress plays a significant role. In this study, 28 Wistar albino type male rats were randomly divided into 4 groups with each group including 7 rats and the experiment was conducted for 6 months. No implementation was conducted on the control group rats. The other 2 groups  DM and DM + OLE  were formed by the intraperitoneal implementation, which was implemented by thawing a single dose STZ 0.1 M in sodium citrate buffer in a way that the implementation would be 50mg/kg. OLE administration  10 ml/kg/day  was administered orally for DM + OLE  after the occurrence of diabetics  and OLE groups. As a result of the experiment, the rats were decapitated and the testicular tissues were removed. The testicular tissues were dyed with Hematoxylin&Eosin Periodic Acid Schiff  PAS  and TdT-mediated nick and labeling  TUNEL . Some of the testicular tissue samples were used for spermatological examinations. In the histological examination, it was determined that the DM group had tubular atrophy, degenerated peritubular congestion and thickening in basal membrane. In the DM + OLE group, histological findings close to those of the control group were observed. In the TUNEL dying, an apoptotic cell increase was observed in the diabetic group. Compared to the diabetic group, it was determined that there was a significant decrease in the apoptotic cell increase in the DM + OLE group. In the testicular tissues of the group with sole OLE implementation, interstitial tissue, and degeneration in the seminiferous tubules were observed. It was concluded that against the testicular damage caused by DM, the direct or indirect antioxidant effect of OLE could be effective in preventing that damage
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ekim 2018
Dergi ismi: Annals of Health Sciences Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/annhealthscires/issue/65349/1006825
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2017130
