Makale Başlığı: The Role and Importance of Information Technologies in Risk Management: The Case of Turkey
Özet: Recently, it is decidedly obvious that the strong relationship between sustainable urbanization process and disaster risk management process has not been fully established in Turkey. Natural and anthropogenic disasters are considered as one of the most important factors that affect the sustainability of world-wide development policies when presumptive losses (life, property, urban facilities, etc.) are taken into account. The disaster risks which are calculated using different methods at the strategic and operational levels can lead to these losses especially in urban areas where dense population lives. For this reason, it is often stated that priority should be given to Risk Management and Emergency Planning issues both in academic writing and policies in application examples.Generally, the main aim of Risk Management is to eliminate and manage predictable and unpredictable uncertainties for urban residents and decision-makers in urban areas. It is not easy to deal with disasters whose frequency and impact cannot be fully measured in accordance with the principles of ‘minimum loss’ and ‘appropriate intervention without any trouble’. This difficulty manifests itself more especially in cities where dense population and built environment exist. From this point of view, it can be said that a successful Risk Management process has a crucial importance in urbanization processes in order to prevent possible losses of life, property and urban facilities. To sum up the process of Risk Management, this process includes three main steps: The identification of disadvantaged urban areas systematically in order to construction conditions and also the presence of gathering areas for the usage of citizens after disaster case; the determination of appropriate methods according to the type of disaster in order to reduce possible damages and increase urban resilience; finally the development of risk policies and strategies with a multidisciplinary approach.  It is observed that disasters are increasing in frequency, violence and number recently. Therefore, information and communication technologies such as Internet of Things (IoT), Geographic Information Systems (GIS), Remote Sensing (UA), Radio Frequency Identification Systems (RFID), Artifical Intelligence (AI), sensors, robots and smart systems, etc. meet the expectations of decision-making mechanisms in theoretical and practical studies aimed at developing strategies for solving multi-criteria problems. The possibilities offered by technology and its tools allow you to design a system focused on Risk Management and analyze multidisciplinary and multi-layered studies with the data provided. While these possibilities are considered in the context of creating databases and conducting intelligent queries, it can be seen easily that information technologies’ tools are important for the Risk Management process.The main purpose of the study is to emphasize the importance of disaster risk analysis in order to ensure urban resilience and also to eliminate the uncertainties of the risk phenomenon within the scope of Risk Management. Moreover, the examination of national application examples related to different disaster risks is aimed in this study. For the Risk Management processes, taking the right steps are crucial such as preventing losses that may occur after a possible disaster and correctly intervening in the right place at the right time. Under the guidance of this importance, using real-time data through technology and making realistic predictions about disaster risks will be the right steps
Yazar isimleri: ['Merve COŞANDAL', 'Nur Sinem PARTİGÖÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Resilience
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/resilience/issue/68460/1033649
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2119967
