Makale Başlığı: Interaction of Occupational Health and Safety and Work Productivity: Open Pit Mining
Özet: In this study examined the relationship between occupational health and safety and work efficiency of employees of a mining company operating in open pit mining. Previous accidents and precautions taken in the field belonging to the mining company were examined. Questionnaires about demographic characteristics, occupational health and safety and productivity were prepared. The relevant forms were applied to 56 people and all of them were evaluated.We have found that the presence of risks threatening employee safety in the workplace has a significant negative impact on the productivity of the employees. Taking health and safety measures not only increased the self-confidence of the employees, but also positively affected their sense of belonging to the job. In our study, it was found that those with secondary education and below had more occupational accidents (10.7%), while those with higher education levels were found to be less (1.7%). When their professional experience is examined, it is seen that those working for 5-10 years have been exposed to more work accidents (5.3%). We can say that this situation is due to unnecessary self-confidence, not showing the necessary and attention while working.Proactive practices of workplaces on occupational safety have increased the productivity of employees. Likewise, reactive measures taken after a work accident caused employees to be more careful. Our study shows that job engagement is significantly associated with higher age, lower education, and environmental risk (low and high).
Yazar isimleri: ['Ebru Emine ŞÜKÜROĞLU', 'Ayşe BAYRAK', 'Mustafa GÜNAYDIN', 'Süleyman ŞÜKÜROĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Gümüşhane Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gumussagbil/issue/72733/1139439
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2521075
