Makale Başlığı: Director Suha Arin in Turkish Documentary Cinema: An Analysis of the Documentary “From Hattis to Hittites” in the Context of Archeology Documentary Genre
Özet: Süha Arın is a director mentioned as an “ecol” in the History of the Turkish Documentary Cinema. Undoubtedly, the most important element that makes him known is to introduce and preserve Turkish culture in a unique Documentary style from the past to the present. It can be observed that the director has a humanistic understanding in the background of Documentary films produced by applying scientific methods. It is remarkable that every Turkish documentarian has a style unique to the period in which he lived, in the division of Turkish Documentary History into periods from the beginning. Süha Arın, on the other hand, approached the reality directly with the Documentary films he made during the cultural humanism period in which he created his own style, while at the same time presenting the possibilities of creative Documentary techniques to the World of Cinema. The director has a leading effect on his documentaries in the context of the genre documentary. This effect is described as an interdisciplinary approach. In many scientific articles, it is possible to come across a Documentary film by Süha Arın. The aim of the Research report is to examine Süha Arın’s perspective on the concept of “Documentary” in the context of the “Archeology Documentary Genre” through the film “From Hattiler to Hattis” (1974). Süha Arın, while inventing different but realistic perspectives that will form the backbone of Turkish Documentary Cinema, makes it clear that the definition of documentary should be rethought internationally. While the conceptual framework of the documentary included in the study was elaborated on the paradigms of history, culture, society and people, the analysis was increased with cinematography techniques.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ece UĞUR']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Mayıs 2022
Dergi ismi: Çanakkale Araştırmaları Türk Yıllığı
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/canakkalearastirmalari/issue/70025/1016272
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2052670
