Makale Başlığı: Innovative Competitive Approach of Business Managers: A Scale  Development Study
Özet: Production plays a key role for many economic and social concepts such as the development of the country's economy, development and employment, and increasing the level of welfare. The changes and developments taking place in communication, information and information technologies change the production structures of enterprises and their competitive potentials in parallel. The need for companies to be multifaceted, up-to-date, complete and accurate in order to compete, protect the interests of their partners, make future-oriented decisions and ensure continuity is increasing day by day. The way to be successful in business managers' globalized new world order is to reflect the relationship between knowledge management, innovation and competitiveness in the most accurate way. In this study business managers to consider for industry 4.0 and marketing 4.0 the "Innovative Competitive Approach" scale was tried to be developed. For this purpose, a literature review was conducted and a 72-item item pool was created. The draft scale was presented to the experts' opinions, the necessary corrections were made and a 67-item draft scale was created. The draft scale was implemented in production enterprises operating in Antalya, Isparta, Burdur Organized Industrial Zone, 486 managers. An exploratory and confirmatory factor analysis was performed for construct validity. The exploratory factor analysis showed that the scale had 25 items under 5 factors. As a result of the exploratory factor analysis, it was determined that the factor load values changed between .624 and .822 and explained 64.013% of the total variance. Confirmatory factor analysis was performed to test the outcome of the exploratory factor analysis. A reliability analysis was performed to test the reliability of the scale
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Haziran 2018
Dergi ismi: Akademia Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asj/issue/40224/479051
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/568074
