Makale Başlığı: Structural, Optical, and Morphological Characterization of Silica Nanoparticles Prepared by Sol-Gel Process
Özet: In the current years, silica nanoparticles have become more favorable in various disciplines like medicine, nano-biotechnology, the food industry, and drug delivery due to their tunable physicochemical characteristics. In this paper, the silica nanoparticles were synthesized by hydrolysis and condensation of tetra-ethyl-ortho-silicate (TEOS) in an ethanolic medium using ammonia as a stimulator in the reaction. The chemical bond structures of silica nanoparticles were analyzed by Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FT-IR) which confirmed the existence of the Si-O bonds according to the different absorption peaks of the samples. The amorphous structure of these nanoparticles was certified by finding the board peaks in the X-Ray Diffraction (XRD) patterns. The elemental chemical composition of silica nanoparticles was investigated by Energy Dispersive X-Ray Spectroscopy (EDX) where 61.48wt % of silicon and 23.48wt% of oxygen were found. Almost round-shaped spherical and uniform silica nanoparticles with smooth surfaces were investigated by Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) measurement. The different particle sizes of silica nanoparticles within the range of 95±5.59 to 280±7.8 nm were found by controlling the concentration of TEOS. The optical absorption spectra and band gap calculations were also analyzed by Ultraviolet-Visible (UV-Vis) spectrophotometry for the different concentrations of TEOS. The results revealed that with increasing the concentration of TEOS, the absorption spectra of silica nanoparticles increased and their optical bandgap decreased from 3.92 eV to 3.79 eV.
Yazar isimleri: ['Most. Nilufa YEASMİN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of the Turkish Chemical Society Section A: Chemistry
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jotcsa/issue/72258/1071086
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2244306
