Makale Başlığı: Discrimination in Tourist Guiding: A Study on Female Tourist Guides
Özet: Purpose and Importance: The discrimination that women are exposed to depending on their gender has many negative effects both on themselves and on their communication with the people in the working environment. From this point of view, the aim of this study is to determine whether female tourist guides in the field of tourism, who are one of the most prominent in the service sector, are exposed to discrimination in their professional life and if they do, to determine the reasons. this study will contribute to both the sector and the relevant institutions and organizations in terms of determining the gender-based discrimination that female tourist guides face in the sector. Identifying the problems that female tourist guides face in the profession and developing suggestions for these problems will both contribute to the reduction of the problems of tourist guides and prevent the tourism guiding profession from being perceived as a profession specific to men only in the sector and society.Methodology: Qualitative research method was used as a method in the research. Semi-structured interview was used as the data collection method. The interviews were held between June 2021 and April 2022. Within the scope of the study, 15 tourist guides were interviewed in electronic and face-to-face environment.Findings: According to the data obtained in the study, it was determined that female tourist guides faced both positive and negative discrimination. It has been determined that they do not experience negative discrimination in terms of wages or social rights, even if negative discrimination occurs during recruitment. It has been observed that female tourist guides do not have thoughts of leaving their jobs due to the negative discrimination experienced. In addition, it has been determined that female tourist guides are exposed to verbal/sexual harassment by drivers and tourists.Originality/Value: When the literature on the subject is reviewed, there are generally studies that deal with the problems of tourist guides. Undoubtedly, there are also studies dealing with female tourist guides. However, these studies are limited in number. In this study, solution suggestions are presented on the issues where female tourist guides experience discrimination. In this respect, it will guide both tourist guides and relevant institutions/organizations and contribute to the relevant literature.
Yazar isimleri: ['Melisa ATEŞ', 'Hasan Hüseyin SOYBALI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Turist Rehberliği Dergisi (TURED)
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tured/issue/70781/1064528
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2218628
