Makale Başlığı: Measuring Source Country Diversification in Imports of North African Countries by Using Concentration Ratio and Herfindahl-Hirschman Index
Özet: States meet their needs that are not produced in the country by importing them from other countries. After the Russia-Ukraine war in 2022, the risk of importing from only one or a few source countries has emerged. Cessation of imports from countries that encounter situations such as war, disaster, etc. is an important risk factor. In order to reduce the risk, importing countries should diversify their source country. In addition, diversifying the source country will make the market more competitive and will be in the interest of the countries in the region in the long run. For this reason, states should import goods from as many countries as possible and go for source country diversification. The aim of this study is toinvestigate whether North African countries (Egypt, Libya, Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco) diversify in imports from source countries. For this purpose, the concentration ratio (CR4, CR8) and Herfindahl-Hirschman (HHI) indices that are used in market concentration measurements after 2001 were calculated, and comments were made. As a result of the study, it has been revealed that Egypt performs source country diversification more successfully than other North African countries. Tunisia was the weakest country in terms of source country diversification. According to the average of HHI values, there is a low concentration in all of the North African countries. According to the concentration ratio (CR4) averages,moderate concentration in Egypt, Libya, Algeria, and Morocco; There is a high concentration in Tunisia. Libya, Algeria, Tunisia, and Morocco need to further diversify their source countries. In addition, it has emerged that countries such as China, France, Italy, and Spain dominate the market and that Turkey has increased its share in the market
Yazar isimleri: ['Serkan DİLEK', 'Ali KONAK']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Ekonomik ve Sosyal Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/esad/issue/70716/1112292
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2410200
