Makale Başlığı: An investigation of teachers' views on the applicability of the life studies’ curriculum in 2018
Özet: Purpose of the research; The aim of this study is to examine the applicability of the 2018 Life Studies Curriculum, which is up-to-date, in line with the opinions of classroom teachers. In the research, mixed method, exploratory sequential design was used as a design. The study was conducted with 360 classroom teachers in the quantitative dimension and 15 classroom teachers in the qualitative dimension. The obtained data were analyzed with SPSS 26 statistical program. According to the gender variable of the teachers, unrelated t-test, according to the variables of professional seniority; Findings were obtained by using one-way analysis of variance "ANOVA" and the findings were interpreted. In cases where there is significant differentiation as a result of this test, “LSD” was applied to determine from which group or groups the differentiation originated. The qualitative data obtained regarding the findings obtained from the quantitative data were interpreted by subjecting them to content analysis. Based on the quantitative findings; It was seen that the majority of the opinions of the primary school teachers on the applicability of the 2018 Life Studies Curriculum were positive, and they differed according to the gender and professional seniority variable. According to the qualitative findings; It is seen that the compatibility of the objectives with each other and the flexibility of the content are left to the priorities of the teachers, which is the strength of the program. And also; it is necessary to organize the acquisitions in accordance with the trends of the age towards high-level thinking skills, and the number of acquisitions related to universal value in the program should be increased. It has been concluded that there should be detailed guidance on measurement-evaluation methods and techniques within the program in order to make a process evaluation that takes individual differences more into account, and suggestions have been made.
Yazar isimleri: ['Özer ÇELİK']
Yayın Yılı: 2 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kocaeli Üniversitesi Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kuje/issue/73669/1146718
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2550149
