Makale Başlığı: Art Inspired by Tradition;  Wearable Statues of Ryunosuke Okazaki
Özet: Each work of art reflects the spirit of its own period in a sense. This act of reflection also serves as a semantic bridge between the past and the future. Because, like life itself, every field of art is affected by the cultures lived before it and creates layers by adding/articulating on previous experiences. The effect of globalization, in which change and transforma-tion is experienced in the social dimension, is reflected in the field of art as well as in every field. In this process where interdisciplinary interactions are at the forefront and all kinds of subjects and materials adapt to art, artists combine their own unique expression possibilities and traces of their cultural characteristics with their creativity. In this context, traditions are not only a source of inspiration for artists, but also an effective reference point in terms of discovering themselves and revealing their creativity.This research; As an artist inspired by tradition, she focuses on the cultural history of Ryunosuke Okazaki's wearable sculptures and the aesthetic foundations on which they are based. The Jomon Jomon series, which the artist put there inspired by the Jomon Period ceramics from the early stages of Japanese art, coincides with the language of Jomon ceramics in terms of aesthetic language and simplicity. However, this point of view is also expressed through the unique practices of the artist with a strong expression language, through the differences in practice. It is noteworthy that Okazaki also reveals an interdisciplinary discourse and approach in these productions. The fact that the reflection of the power of tradition on today's art is a unique reference point for artists in search of originality is revealed through the wearable sculptures of Ryunosuke Okazaki, which is the subject of this study.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 25 Eylül 2021
Dergi ismi: Kesit Akademi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kesitakademi/issue/65705/1019297
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2064389
