Makale Başlığı: The Turkish Revolution in Music Education: Hasan Ferit Alnar's Place in the Turkish Five and the Eight Pieces of Piano
Özet: The innovation process experienced in every field in the Republican Period in Turkey also affected the field of music education. In the 19th century, many children with special talents in the field of music were sent abroad for educational purposes. After completing their education, these children returned to Turkey and helped to form Contemporary Turkish Music. This modernization process has been in the form of reorganizing the traditional structure of Turkish Music in technical and aesthetic dimensions in a way that it can be understood internationally. The aim of this compilation study is to reveal the place of Hasan Ferit Alnar, one of the artists of the modernization period, in the Turkish Five. For this purpose, the artist's The Eight Pieces of Piano was analyzed mainly in terms of mode. Since Alnar is a member of a family interested in Turkish Music, he primarily took his music education on Turkish Music. Later, he made great strides in contemporary music by blending polyphonic music and Turkish music. Among the members of the Turkish Five, Alnar is the artist who uses Turkish music tonalities and limping styles the most, and this is the biggest building block of Alnar's works. In addition, the orchestration of Alnar's works is much simpler and easier in terms of analysis. Although The Eight Pieces of Piano, composed in a plain language, is one of the lesser-known works of Hasan Ferit Alnar, this piece is important in that it is composed by using different lines in each piece. However, the works of Alnar, who is a different and special composer, did not receive the attention and value they deserve in the country, and they were mostly respected by orchestras abroad. Even after his death, it should be ensured that the different works of the artist get the value they deserve by making harmonic studies.
Yazar isimleri: ['Evren ERDOĞAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Siirt Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sedder/issue/70547/1130623
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2485908
