Makale Başlığı: The Concept of Chastity in the Qur’ān: A Semantic Investigation
Özet: The Qur’ān contains many moral concepts. It is seen that the concept of chastity has an important place among all moral concepts. Therefore, it would be useful to deal with it specifically. This study aims at examining the concept of chastity (‘iffat) in the Qur’ān semantically. Although the word chastity (‘iffat) does not appear in the Qur’ān in this form, the root ‘aff/عفف, from which the word is derived, occurs in four verses. In Arabic, the word ‘aff/عفف basically means “to be content with having a small amount of something”, the word, however, is also used to mean “to avoid what is not halal and not pleasant, to avoid what is illegitimate”. In two of the verses in the Qur’ān, it is seen that the word is used in the sense of “overcoming the desires for property” and in the other two verses it is used in the sense of “harnessing unlawful sexual desires”. According to these usages, it is understood that chastity is an important virtue that allows a person to restrain the two most prominent weaknesses that may trouble him during his trial. In the Qur’ān, it is seen that this word is especially used in verb patterns meaning “desiring to be chaste” in three places and “acquiring chastity by enduring hardship” in one place. In terms of these uses, it can be said that chastity is a valuable virtue that can only be attained through divine support. In the Qur’ān ḥayā’ (while pudicity), ghinā’ (wealth) and taḥaṣṣun (remaining chaste) stand out as concepts close to chastity in meaning, bighā’ (adultery), tabarruj (exposing adornments) and ilḥāf (importunity) can be taken as opposite concepts to it. Chastity is an important virtue that contributes to the formation of such virtues such as generosity, patience and conviction in a person, while preventing bad morals such as greed, hypocrisy and envy.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nazife Vildan GÜLOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Rumeli İslam Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumeli/issue/73039/1169292
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2625494
