Makale Başlığı: INVESTIGATING THE MULTIGRADE AND THE MONOGRADE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL TEACHERS’ USE OF ACTIVE LEARNING TECHNIQUES IN TURKISH COURSE
Özet: The aim of this research is to investigate the use of active learning activities in Turkish course by elementary school teachers working in multi-grade and monograde classrooms. The study group of the research consists of 20 fourth grade teachers working in multi-grade and monograde classrooms (fourth graders) in the 2020-2021 academic year. Case study, one of the qualitative research methods, was used in the research. The data were obtained through remote interviews with the teachers via a semi-structured interview form, and then transcripts of the interview recordings were created and analyzed respectively. The results reveal that there are deficiencies in the teachers’ preparation of Turkish course instructional lesson plans and the majority of them do not take learners’ interests and needs into consideration when they prepare instructional lesson plans. Teachers generally focus on learner centered activities in teaching three basic language skills reading, writing, and speaking; however, almost all of the teachers do not include learner centered activities when they teach listening skills. Therefore, it is thought that as the differentiated instruction activities are not used by the majority of teachers in their classrooms and student remains passive in the teaching process. In addition, students remained passive in multi-grade classes, during homework hours, and in general, reading and writing activities were conducted in which children would study individually and silently. Similarly, in distance education, students remained passive in the teaching processes of four basic language skills. Moreover, in distance education, generally, reading studies are emphasized the majority of student-centered activities conducted in face-to-face education were not included. In line with the views of the teachers, it is thought that the students become individualized by moving away from group work in the distance education processes.
Yazar isimleri: ['Merve ÇELİK KIRTAN', 'Akın EFENDİOĞLU', 'Fatma KARAÇOBAN']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Çukurova Üniversitesi Türkoloji Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cutad/issue/70298/1097061
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2347209
