Makale Başlığı: Similar Aspects of Prophet Ibrahim and Prophet Muhammad in the Context of Parables
Özet: The Qur'an, the last divine book, contains many subjects. One of the important issues in the content of the Qur'an is the parables about the prophets, the societies that lived in the past and some events in history. The stories make up about two-thirds of the Qur'an. Allah, to every society; He declared that he sent a prophet who invited them to worship Allah and spoke their language.  The names of some of these envoys sent to humanity are included in the Qur'an, and some of them are not. The parables of some of these prophets have been extensively covered. Although there are different narrations about the number of prophets who were assigned to guide people to the right path, when we look at the parables of the Prophets told in the Qur'an; It is observed that the prophets show similarities in terms of some characteristics such as their adventures, personal characteristics and behaviors. At the beginning of the surahs in which the parables of the Prophet are told, comes the Surah Enbiya. However, the parable that is mentioned in detail in the Qur'an is the parable of the Prophet Yusuf and is told in Surah Yusuf. Prophet Abraham, on the other hand, is one of the first prophets that comes to mind when the parables of the prophets are mentioned in the Qur'an. In the Qur'an, the Prophet is the most mentioned after Prophet Moses, and there is an independent surah in his name. The Prophet Muhammad, who also has a separate surah in his name, was sent to all humanity as the last of the prophets. When their lives are compared in the context of the parables in the Qur'an, it is seen that these two Prophets have similar aspects to each other. In our study, the lives of these two prophets were discussed within the framework of the verses in the Qur'an, and their similarities were tried to be revealed by comparing them. Here's what comes to mind; We are of the opinion that a generalization such as "the prophets are all alike because the source to which they were sent is the same" would not be correct. Although the similar aspects of these two prophets are discussed in the study, the similarities of these prophets in terms of their shari'a are not mentioned in order not to exceed the size of an article.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yusuf OFLAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: İslami İlimler Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iiad/issue/73729/1178029
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2662155
