Makale Başlığı: The Socioeconomic Status of Karadeniz Ereğli Divan and Villages in the Middle 19th Century
Özet: This study was carried out to shed light on the social and economic structure of the rural part of Karadeniz Ereğli consisting of divans and villages in the middle of the 19th century. The source of the study data is 35 Temettuat Registers recorded in 1844-45 in the ML. VRD. TMT. d fund, which is related to the Ministry of Finance in The Directorate of State Archives of the Presidency of the Republic of Turkey (BOA). It will be a complement to our thesis study, which examined the district center before. In the study, first of all, information about the history of Karadeniz Ereğli is given, and the purpose and quality of the temettuat registers, which are the source of the datas, are explained. The obtained datas were arranged according to the book numbers in the archive and tabulated. Then, the number of rural settlements and the estimated populations in these settlements were reached. Information is given about the divans, which are a type of administrative unit specific to the region and which are found in large numbers in the temettuat registers that we have examined. In addition, the number and proportion of people with income, who have great importance and influence in the total population, were determined. After the total incomes in the settlements were determined, the amounts of households and personal incomes were calculated. The qualitative differences in incomes were analyzed by separating the agricultural and non-agricultural incomes in the records. Information about the tax structure was given, the totals of taxes determined as the income item of the state and the household averages were determined; settlements were compared. Finally, the ratio of total tax to income was calculated and compared according to settlement units.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Turcology Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/turcology/issue/73283/1196755
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2739815
