Makale Başlığı: Hadith Education in Last Period Afghanistan Madrases: The Case of Balkh
Özet: Afghanistan is a geography that has trained many scholars since the first periods of Islamic history and has made great contributions to the science of hadith. In the first four centuries of Hijri, Kutayba b. Said, Said b. Mansur, Abû Dawud al-Sijistânî, İbn Hibbân al-Bustî and al-Khattâbî muhaddith scholars were educated. The tradition of madrasah, which has trained many scholars in the field of hadith, fiqh and tafsir in the historical process, continues to maintain its vitality in Afghanistan. There are many madrasahs in Afghanistan, where traditional madrasah education has been carried out from the past to the present. With the modernization movement that started in Afghanistan in the last century, madrasahs continued their existence and functionality as illegal educational institutions, despite the bans on religious education and madrasahs. Although official high schools and sharia faculties are providing religious education in the country, madrasahs are in greater demand. It is expected that the demand for these madrasas will increase, especially since the madrasahs were legalized in the period after the Taliban came to power in August 2021. Our study covers the last hundred-year historical process of Afghanistan's madrasas. It aims to provide information about Afghanistan madrasas, which are the continuation of Diobend madrasas, which are considered as representatives of traditional interpretation in the Indian subcontinent, and especially about hadith education. Today, the way of interpretation of Islam by the madrasah-based politicians who hold the political power is the subject of current discussions. The nature of the madrasas, whose Hanafi fiqh and Maturidi creeds are prominent, their education curricula and especially their hadith-oriented perspectives are conveyed. Our study includes data obtained from Afghanistan madrasas by using qualitative research method within the framework of field research.
Yazar isimleri: ['Abdulcelil ALPKIRAY']
Yayın Yılı: 14 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: İhya Uluslararası İslam Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ihya/issue/71248/1106808
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2387864
