Makale Başlığı: Can prokineticin 1 be used as a biomarker in preeclampsia?
Özet: AbstractCan prokineticin 1 be used as a biomarker in preeclampsia?Aim:Prokineticins are a group of peptides which play important roles in angiogenesis, hematopoiesis and reproduction. Prokineticin 1 (PROK1) is reported to be the major subgroup affecting the female reproductive development.PROK1 is secreted from the syncytiotrophoblasts and it prevents extravillous trophoblastic cell migration in the first trimester which predispose to the abnormal placentation and preeclampsia (PE). Hypoxia provokes the expression of PROK1 therefore its serum levels increase in pregnants with PE. The aim of the present study was to reveal the value of PROK1 as a marker of  PE.Materials and Method:A total of 84 pregnant women were admitted to the study, and 43 of them were diagnosed with preeclampsia. 41 healthy pregnant women were included in the control group. The preeclampsia group was divided into two subgroups as mild PE (n=27) and severe PE (n=16). About 10 ml of venous blood was collected from each participant and dispensed into lithium heparin, and serum was obtained, which were stored at – 80 c until analyzed. Serum PROK1 measurements were performed by using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELİSA). All tests were two-tailed, and p<0.05 was considered to be statistically significant. Results: In our study we did not find any significant difference in PROK1 levels of the two groups. (115.66±22.41 vs115.57±26.27; p=0.91). Groups showed no significant differences in maternal age (years) and gestational age at admission. The preeclamptic group was separated into the two groups as mild PE (n=27) and severe PE (n=16) (Table 3).  The prokineticin 1 level was lower in the mild preeclamptic group than the severe and control groups and this declination did not reach statistical significance. Conclusion:PROK1 is thought to play role in the etiology of PE regarding the fact that this peptide affects the trophoblast invasion and placental angiogenesis. Although our present study did not reach a result indicating PROK1 as a predictor of PE, larger scaled studies are needed to clarify the role of this factor in PE.  Key words: preeclampsia, prokineticin 1, predictor
Yazar isimleri: ['İpek ULU', 'Şule YILDIRIM KÖPÜK', 'Yasemin ÇEKMEZ', 'Gürkan KIRAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Jinekoloji-Obstetrik ve Neonatoloji Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jgon/issue/72893/1003741
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2005930
