Makale Başlığı: Revealing Lycee Students' Conceptual Understanding: “Digestive System”
Özet: Revealing alternative conceptions studies and conceptual change studies are frequently encountered in the science education literature. One of the most important reasons for this is that many subjects or concepts in science disciplines are abstract. In addition, due to the abstract nature of these concepts, it makes it difficult to be understood by students and instructed by teachers. One of them is the subject of "Digestive System", encountered in the biology discipline, and the concepts within this subject. The digestive system is one of the leading subjects in the teaching and learning of other systems. From this point of view, this research presented here was conducted in order to reveal 11th grade high school students’ conceptual difficulties and alternative conceptions about the "digestive system" subject with a two-tier concept test. In order to achieve this aim, the descriptive survey model was utilized in the study. A two-tier concept test, consisted of 10 two-tier test items used in the existing literature, was used as a data collection tool in this study. The data were obtained by applying the concept test to a total of 60 high school students. The data obtained were analyzed in the context of the categories in the relevant literature. At the end of the analyzes, it was determined that the achievement of high school students about the "digestive system" was not at the desired level and that the students had many conceptual difficulties and alternative conceptions. It is believed that the results obtained from this study should be used an important source to represent students’ alternative conceptions and difficulties.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatma COŞTU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Eğitim Bilim ve Araştırma Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ebad/issue/72841/1161555
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2594562
