Makale Başlığı: CALCULATION OF HEALTHY LIFE EXPECTANCY AND HEALTHY LIFE YEARS LOST BY USING THE LIFE TABLES FOR TURKEY BETWEEN 1920-2019
Özet: Life tables are very important tools that show the mortality pattern and level of countries. The most important of these indicators, life expectancy at birth (e0), is an indicator that is used to predict how many years people will live after they are born. However, especially with the aging process of the population, it has become important to lead a quality and healthy life as well as the length of life. Therefore, besides life expectancy at birth (LEXP), healthy life expectancy (HALE) has also become an important indicator. HALE refers to the average number of years a person is expected to live in full health. HALE indicates how long people are expected to live without illness or disability, as opposed to life expectancy at birth. Also, the indicator of healthy life years lost (HLYL) is the difference between LEXP and HALE. In this study, survivorship rates were calculated with the cohort approach by using the censuses or registration system data for Turkey between 1920 and 2019, and life expectancy at age 5 (e5) values were obtained by using model life tables. Using these values, five-year life tables for both female and male were obtained through the necessary modules of the Mortpak 4.3 program. Using these tables, “healthy life expectancy”, “healthy life years lost” and “person life years lost” were calculated for the five year periods between 1920 and 2019. According to the results, it has been observed that healthy life expectancy in Turkey has increased like life expectancy at birth for both genders and that the healthy life years lost are postponed towards older ages, especially among women. In addition, it was observed that healthy life expectancy increased less than life expectancy at birth due to the increase in healthy life years lost. In addition, the results of this study were compared with the data of the World Health Organization (WHO) and the reliability of the data quality and method of the study were examined
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Nüfusbilim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/nufusbilim/issue/72913/1184245
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2688305
