Makale Başlığı: REZA SHAH AND THE IRANIAN NATIONALIST HISTORIOGRAPHY PROJECT
Özet: This work called Reza Shah and the Iranian Nationalist Historiography Project is written by Ali Begdeli, Sepideh Afshar Rezaei Mahdi Goljan, Alireza Alisofi. Reza Shah Pahlavi, who has a great importance in terms of modern Iranian history, started to make his influence felt in the political arena with the coup they carried out together with Seyyid Ziyaeddin Tabatabai on February 21, 1921 (3 İsfend 1299 Coup), and in 1925 he came to the throne by ending the Qajar dynasty. Reza Shah, who has made various attempts within the scope of modernization, nation-identity building and nationalism ideology since his accession to the throne, saw non-Persian ethnic identities in Iran as a great threat to Iran's territorial integrity and started to follow a policy based on pacifying them. In this context, he implemented the policy of cultural standardisation, which Persian nationalism, whose name we heard frequently in the question period, was forced to impose. Within the scope of this policy, Persian was accepted as the national language, and languages other than Persian were prohibited in the press, in mosques, radio and television, in the names of places and spaces, and in education. Reza Shah made many attempts for the systematic expansion of nationalist ideology in political, historical, literary and many other fields. Due to the laws and statutes he put into practice during the ruling process and the contact he established with writers, poets and political elements, it was extremely effective in making nationalism a dominant ideology. In this context, there are personalities who support him and the means by which these personalities legitimize nationalism. In this article, historical figures who contributed to the aforementioned ideology of Rıza Shah and the tools they used -historical texts- were examined. Here, it is discussed how figures such as Hassan Pirnia, Ahmad Kasravi, Abbas Ikbal, Cemîl Kâzânlû, Gulâm Rızâ Reşîd-i Yâsemî , who serve this ideology, work on the nationalist ideology in their historical texts. While doing this, the authors wanted to express that this ideology is found effectively in people who are not competent historians by considering not only professional historians who write historical texts, but also a non-professional figure like Cemîl Kâzânlû. The authors of the article tried to select the most prominent works of these figures and drew attention to the effects of these works on forming an ideological mindset. In the study, aforementioned the authors examined the historical perspectives of the nationalist ideology that was dominant during the Reza Shah Pahlavi period and evaluated some prominent figures and their works in the context of their emphasis on nationalism. These authors aim to determine the place of the understanding of nationalism in the field of history, to reveal how historical texts written with a nationalist perspective have an effect on the readers, and to reveal what kind of contradiction is experienced in some texts in order to present a nationalist narrative. The study is remarkable in that it critically analyzes various prominent figures in this period and the various works written by them, and examines the consequences of nationalist historiography.
Yazar isimleri: ['Çevirmen: Zühre Nur CELEP']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Genel Türk Tarihi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gttad/issue/71320/1092918
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2330682
