Makale Başlığı: Investigation with The Bibliometric Analysis Method of Studies about the Effect on Climate Change of Paddy Production
Özet: Purpose: Climate; It is defined as the average of temperature, humidity, atmospheric pressure, wind, precipitation, humidity levels, sunlight intensities, cloud covers and other meteorological events in a certain time. Climate change; Any change in weather conditions with short- and long-term observations in comparable time periods, as well as changes in climate that directly or indirectly degrade the composition of the global atmosphere as a result of human activities (Ullah et al. 2018; TOB, 2020). Agriculture is lead of the sectors that are highly dependent on climatic conditions. Climate change jeopardizes sustainable agricultural development, poses a serious threat to the yield and income of many farmers, and reduces the surface and ground water balance. Greenhouse gases are one of the main factors that cause climate change. According to the data of TURKSTAT (2021), when analyzed on a sectoral basis, it is seen that the greenhouse gas emissions of agriculture have a share of 12.5% as of 2018. Paddy is the most important source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and according to FAO (2021) statistics, it is one of the most cultivated staple foods with approximately 162 million ha after wheat and corn, in the World in 2019 (Pramono et al. 2021). According to this information, it is aimed to present the temporal evolution of the studies on the relationship between climate change and paddy production in a systematic and comprehensive manner by examining the scientific publications made in the field of climate change and paddy from the past to the present with the bibliometric analysis method. The data obtained as a result of the examined publications are illustrated with the visual mapping technique.Design/Methodology/Approach: The database consists of 1257 scientific publications accessed from Scopus. The collected data were analyzed by bibliometric analysis method.Findings: When the literature is examined, it has been determined that research has been carried out on main themes such as climate change, agriculture, greenhouse gas, methane, paddy, global warming, greenhouse effect, agricultural production, food safety.Originality/Value: The research differs from other studies in that it examines the global climate change and rice production literature from 1994 to the present, using bibliometric analysis.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sema Ezgi YÜCEER', 'Sibel TAN', 'Sabri Sami TAN', 'Eylem DURMUŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Tarım Ekonomisi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tarekoder/issue/67986/963118
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1862243
