Makale Başlığı: Optimization of perioperative hemodynamics in cytoreductive surgery of ovarian cancer with malignant ascites
Özet: Purpose: In this study, we aimed to evaluate the effects of norepinephrine and albumin use in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer with malignant ascite in order to maintain plasma oncotic pressure and intravascular volume, to provide perioperative hemodynamic stabilization and tissue perfusion. In addition, it was aimed to compare in terms of postoperative intensive care admission, hospital stay and complications.Materials and Methods: A total of 66 patients, 38 with ascites and 28 without ascites, who underwent cytoreductive surgery for ovarian cancer were included in this study. PVI and invasive arterial monitoring of the patients were performed after hemodynamic stabilization (after the start of surgery) (T0). T0, 1st hour (T1) and 2nd hour (T2) and postoperative (Tpostop.) Ascites patients were composed of 3 subgroups which the ones received norepinephrine (NE) infusion, norepinephrine + albumin (NEA) infusion or only fluid therapy (FT). From the perioperative hemodynamic and laboratory data of the patients, tissue perfusion was evaluated with lactate, and hemodynamic status was evaluated with pleth variability index (PVI), perfusion index (PI) and mean arterial pressure (MAP).Results: Demographic and clinical findings did not differ significantly between patients with and without ascites. Lactate level in NEA / NE group in Tpostop, PVI level in T1h, T2h and Tpostop time frames were determined higher than the FT group. PI was found to be significantly lower in the T2 time frame. The postoperative ICU admission rate was higher in the NEA and NE groups. The duration of ICU stay in group NEA was shorter than in group NE.Conclusion: We recommend the use of low-dose NE with albumin to provide perioperative hemodynamic optimization, tissue perfusion and plasma oncotic pressure in surgery of ovarian cancer with malignant ascites. Despite high fluid replacement in these patients, the use of norepinephrine and albumin together may have an important role in preventing / reducing major complications in the perioperative period.
Yazar isimleri: ['Güneş Özlem YILDIZ', 'Gokhan SERTCAKACİLAR', 'Duygu AKYOL', 'Sema KARAKAŞ', 'Gülsüm Oya HERGÜNSEL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Cukurova Medical Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cumj/issue/72549/1097476
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2348793
