Makale Başlığı: INCREASING PRODUCTIVITY WITH ERGONOMIC PRODUCTION DESIGN IN THE AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY PROGRESSIVE MOLDING LINE
Özet: Ergonomic conditions that are ignored in all materials, machinery, equipment and working environments in workplaces negatively affect employee activities. Ergonomically examining and designing work processes is a policy that will prevent musculoskeletal disorders (MSD), as well as increase the efficiency of the employee and production. The way to protect physical and mental health starts with analysis. In this study, the MSD risks of the workers in the progressive molding line, where spare parts are produced in the automotive sector, were examined by QEC and BAUA ergonomic analysis methods. In order to reduce the strain on the operator due to the working, an improvement suggestion has been developed and applied. QEC and BAUA risk scores on current workstation are 73.30% and 30, respectively. With the new production design carried out on the line, the work process that poses a risk has been made independent from the employee and this work has been made dependent on the machine in the molding line. Thus, the risk scores has been reduced to 55.11% and 2 points. This result shows that with the accurate analysis and production design, the MSD risks that employees may encounter today and in the future can be greatly reduced. In ındustries, the employee's maintaining the job in the wrong position and every unnecessary activity is a waste. In addition, the cost and profit of the application has been revealed with the economic analysis made for the situation where such activities are improved. It has been shown that ergonomic working environments have the potential to increase the yield, reduce costs and reflect in profit. With the research results, it is thought that the facilities can prevent MSD by applying ergonomic analyzes, the measures to be taken as a result of these analyzes and the ergonomic production design will have a positive effect on productivity, regardless of the extent of the improvement.
Yazar isimleri: ['Derya İDE', 'Tülin GÜNDÜZ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Endüstri Mühendisliği
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/endustrimuhendisligi/issue/72166/1037667
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2136449
