Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of Spatial Quality Differences in Historical Peninsula in District Park Examples Based on PPS Place Diagram
Özet: More than 56% of the world's population still lives in urban areas and this population continues to increase day by day (Urban Population,2020). Rapidly increasing trend of urbanization brings with it many challenges related to the conservation of green spaces and natural areas in and around cities. Urban open spaces and green spaces where people living in cities spend their free time apart from activities such as work, education and shopping in their daily lives and where they relax mentally and physically, therefore have an important place in spatial planning and urban design. Parks as active use areas offered by urban open and green spaces to the citizens; It also offers various social, cultural and physical activity opportunities to the citizens. Although public open and green spaces are limited in today's conditions, they aim to recreate, maintain and develop the city-nature relationship. The quality of the parks lies on the basis of the perception left by the people as a result of the spatial organization of the parks. Since Fatih is a historical peninsula, it generally has an adjacent settlement. Garden areas are minimized in many places, and most of them have an urban texture where there is no garden area. For this reason, the existence of district and neighborhood parks which are public open green spaces, is of great importance in terms of microclimatic balance and protection of ecosystems in the region. In this study, spatial quality evaluation was made by observing the spatial relations of the users in 3 parks located in different quarters of the Historical Peninsula, making use of the "The Place Diagram" and quality park standards from the space quality diagram defined by PPS. According to the results of the analyzes, it is aimed to develop suggestions for improving the quality of district parks.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zeynep KEREM ÖZTÜRK', 'Bahar FERAH', 'Can TUNCA']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: İstanbul Sabahattin Zaim Üniversitesi Fen Bilimleri Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/izufbed/issue/70053/1103732
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2375315
