Makale Başlığı: Examination of The Effect of Smoking on The Discoloration of Different CAD/CAM Blocks
Özet: Aim: Digital dentistry has led to an inevitable change in dental materials used for indirect restorations. There is a lack of information in the literature about the discoloration of these materials. Exposure to different agents can lead to staining of the materials, resulting in esthetic variability between restorative materials. It has been shown that cigarette smoke causes discoloration of dental materials that are widely used today. To evaluate the color stability of 3 dental CAD/CAM materials subjected to cigarette smoke and brushing.Material and Method: A total of 100 discs, 20 for each, with 1 mm thick material, were prepared from different surface treatments (glazed, polished). Baseline color measurement was made using a colorometer. The samples were divided into two groups: control and experimental. Experimental specimens were subjected to conditions simulating smoking, similar to a smoker being exposed. Control samples were stored in artificial saliva. After exposure, color measurement was performed, and color change (∆E) was calculated before and after intervention using L*a*b values to analyze the color difference of each treatment group quantitatively. Two-way ANOVA and Tamhane post hoc tests were used for statistical analysis (α= 0.05). Result: A higher mean color change occurred in all samples exposed to cigarette smoke than in the corresponding samples subjected to aging. All test materials exposed to cigarette smoke had discoloration above the clinically accepted value (ΔE ˃ 3.3). After exposure to cigarette smoke, all tested restoration materials brushed with a toothbrush show a reduction in staining.Conclusion: New restorative materials and cleaning techniques need to be developed with less sensitive discoloration to the smoking habit.
Yazar isimleri: ['Recep KARA', 'Neşe CIZIROĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Muş Alparslan Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/maunsbd/issue/70456/1129293
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2480426
