Makale Başlığı: Effects of vegetable production on income and livelihood of rural households in Nigeria
Özet: Aims: The growing level of food insecurity and poverty in developing nations, especially among rural households, requires more effort and measures to curb it. Engaging in vegetable production by rural households can play a significant role in alleviating poverty, improving their nutritional status and livelihood. This study, therefore, investigates the effect of vegetable production on rural farmers’ income and households’ livelihood in Nigeria.Methods and Results: Data collected from 400 vegetable farming households were analysed using descriptive statistics and multiple regression. The results revealed that vegetable farming is a female-dominated venture (89.4% females). The regression results revealed that vegetable output had a positive and significant effect on rural households’ income. Other factors that influenced farmers’ income were household size, access to credit and farm size. Furthermore, vegetable production had positive effects on rural households’ livelihood by providing employment, income, basic needs, food, paying for school fees, improving their nutritional status and standard of living. Pests and diseases, poor storage facilities, post-harvest loss, inadequate credit facilities, high cost of inputs, poor knowledge of irrigation, poor transportation and poor extension services were the severe constraints faced in vegetable production.Conclusions: It can be inferred that vegetable production contributed immensely to rural households’ economic status, livelihood and wellbeing. Although, the venture was faced with some challenges. Therefore, the provision of accessible and affordable credit facilities by banks, government and non-governmental organizations to the farmers is important as this would encourage them, curb most of the constraints and increase their income.Significance and Impact of the Study: Understanding the effects of vegetable production on the income and livelihoods of rural dwellers will enhance participation. Therefore, the outcome of this study would allow policymakers to intervene in its production in view to lower poverty and malnutrition, and improve rural households’ wellbeing.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ridwan MUKAİLA', 'Abraham FALOLA', 'Lynda EGWUE', 'Angela OBETTA']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Mustafa Kemal Üniversitesi Tarım Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mkutbd/issue/71394/1067195
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2228795
