Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of Mudéjar Architecture’s Identity and Its Stylistic Features in Spain
Özet: The Iberian Peninsula has a rich cultural and artistic history, as it is a geography dominated by various Islamic governments that came using the North African route starting 711 where the geography turned out to a meeting place of Islamic, Christian and Jewish arts. In the peninsula, which shows intense cultural coexistence and acculturation. However, starting from the 11th century in the Iberian Peninsula, the gradual attacks of the Catholic kingdoms to get back the lands ended the political dominance that Islam established over these lands over time. Mudéjar/Mudéjar architecture begins in the Iberian Peninsula during this period as the Catholic kingdoms started to dominate the region. While the Muslim population allowed to live in Spain for a while is defined as Mudéjar/Mudéjar, the artworks they produce are also referred to as Mudéjar style/Mudéjar Art. However, Mudéjar Art are not only practiced by Muslims, as it can be followed through the material cultural assets that have survived to the present day, where the Christian and Jewish population practiced this art with great admiration. It mostly brings together the leading forms of Islamic and Christian art on the same structural scale within the related art. The number of these structures reaches plenty of that the subject of Mudéjar becomes a historical phenomenon that sometimes, orients cities. In this context, it can be stated that Mudéjar Art has Islamic origins, but it has features that bind and bring together different cultures like a cement. This study at the final set aims to reveal the sources and characteristics of Mudéjar architecture that developed in the Iberian Peninsula, to understand a period and cultural diversity, and to clarify under which art title the related art should be classified in the history of art and architecture.
Yazar isimleri: ['Meltem ÖZKAN ALTINÖZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İnsan ve Toplum Bilimleri Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/itobiad/issue/72362/1093337
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2332274
