Makale Başlığı: The Hadith Sharh (Commentary) in Muhammad Bāqir al-Majlisī’s Mirʻāt al-Uqûl
Özet: The sharh (commentary) activities, which are described as the practice of understanding hadīths, have appeared and become widespread at different times in Sunnī and Shīite scientific circles. In Shīa, the works related to the akhbār were usually carried out on certain works. Among these, the most sharh works are Sahīfa al-Sajjājiya and al-Kutub al-Arbaa. Among the four books, sharhs of al-Kāfī are in the first place. Some Shīite scholars have published different books at the same time. Muhammad Bāqir al-Majlisī, who lived during the period of completion and perfection (takmīl) and regulation (tanzīm), is one of them. Muhammad Bāqir al-Majlisī, has written two sharhs, Mirʻāt al-uqûl fî sharh akhbār âli al-Rasūl and Malāzu'l-akhbār fî fahm tahzībi'l-akhbār. The Mir'āt al-uqûl of Majlisī is separated from the previously written sharhs on al-Kāfī in the direction that the work contains the Usûl, Furūʻ and Rawda sections. However, whether parts of the work belong to him is disputed. In this study, we will try to determine the method of sharh of Majlisī who followed them in his Mir'āt al-uqûl. Due to the high number of volumes of sharh, we will limit our work to the Usûl section. We will try to determine his style and method which he followed and demonstrated in his sharh via the differences between its several copies, under the titles such as his hadīth methodology and history, isnad and texts of hadīths. In addition, many studies have been carried out in the field of hadith sharh in our country. Since these are usually on works of Sunni scholars, our study on Shiite hadith sharh, which can be regarded almost first work, will also help to determine the interaction between two madhabs
Yazar isimleri: ['Said KOBAK']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Kocaeli İlahiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kider/issue/70441/1109340
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2398542
