Makale Başlığı: DETERMINATION OF THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CYBERLOAFING AND ORGANIZATIONAL TRUST IN HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS
Özet: Cyberloafing and organizational trust are among the issues that closely concern employees in today's working conditions. The study was carried out to determine the relationship between cyberloafing and organizational trust in healthcare workers. The population of the research consisted of 1470 healthcare personnel (physicians, nurses, midwives and other health personnel) working in a public hospital in Sivas. Data were collected via the personal information form, Cyberloafing Scale and Organizational Trust Scale from 305 personnel who voluntarily agreed to participate in the study. It was found that Cyberloafing Scale mean score was 27.90± 10.20. It was also found that there was a significant relationship between gender, education, and occupational groups and "insignificant cyberloafing". There was a significant relationship between age, working year and internet facilities in the institution and “serious cyberloafing”. The average score of the participants in the "Organizational Trust Scale" was found as 110.85± 31.28.  It has been determined that there is a significant relationship between "trust in the manager" and the managerial task and internet facilities in the institution.  There was a significant relationship between the "trust in colleagues" sub-dimension and age, education level, working year and internet facilities in the institution. There was a significant relationship between "trust in the organization" and education level, internet facilities in the institution and the profession.In conclusion it was determined that there was no significant relationship between “cyberloafing” and “organizational trust”, however statistically significant findings were obtained when the sub-dimensions of the scales and demographic features were examined.
Yazar isimleri: ['Didem GÜLTEKİN', 'Hatice ULUSOY']
Yayın Yılı: 3 Nisan 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Healthcare Management and Leadership
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/johmal/issue/69272/1091046
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2322963
