Makale Başlığı: An Essay on Political Participation of Citizens, Legislation, and Government in Rousseau's the Social Contract and Considerations on the Government of Poland
Özet: Rousseau’s political philosophy is the subject of this essay. Rousseau’s understanding of legislation within the context of citizen participation, the relationship between lawgiver and general will, and finally the position of government in its relationship with legislation are interconnectedly analyzed. This analysis is done within the scope of his The Social Contract and Considerations on the Government of Poland, thereby relating one of the cornerstones of Rousseau’s political philosophy with a sample of his writings in actual political matters of his age. The essay is divided into two parts. In the first section, Rousseau is positioned in republican thought. This positioning stems from Rousseau’s understanding of civic participation discussed in the same chapter. Especially the role of legislation in Rousseau’s political philosophy is examined and taken into consideration in combination with the lawgiver and exigences of general will. It is also pointed that his view was turned towards day-to-day political activities of citizens, rather than theorizing a direct democracy. As a matter of fact, Rousseau expects from citizens to keep their government in check in order to prevent the government from taking over the legislative power. In the second section, the issues discussed in the previous part of the study are associated with Rousseau’s  thoughts on Poland. In this context, it is pointed that Rousseau implicates Polish citizens’ political immaturity. Since he deals with a lawgiver, draws attention to the importance of education and advises caution even in social issues. He, on the other hand, also envisages the means of keeping the government in check in order to protect the legislature.
Yazar isimleri: ['Atıl Buğra KARADAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 23 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye İnsan Hakları ve Eşitlik Kurumu Akademik Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tihek/issue/72572/1017034
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2055582
