Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of the relationship between Helicobacter pylori and duodenal scattered white spots lesions in dyspeptic patients
Özet: Background and Aims: Duodenal scattered white spot lesions, which we usually encounter and evaluate as intestinal lymphangiectasia in routine endoscopic evaluation, are mostly unknown for a cause or clinical equivalent. In our study, we aimed to evaluate the frequency of duodenal scattered white spot lesions, their pathological findings and their relationship with Helicobacter pylori. Materials and Methods: A total of 445 patients admitted to Department of Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology and underwent gastroscopy by the same endoscopist who have dyspeptic complaints. The endoscopy findings of all patients were evaluated retrospectively. Antrum and duodenal biopsies were taken of patients with endoscopic findings of duodenal scattered white spot lesions and histologically examined. Results: Two-thirds of the patients were female (60%) and the mean age was 47.1 years. The examined endoscopic reports revealed that 39 (8.8%) patients had duodenal scattered white spot lesions. The biopsies of the patients with duodenal scattered white spot lesions revealed intestinal lymphangiectasia in 10 patients (26.3%), chronic nonspecific duodenitis in 21 patients (55.2%), and Giardia infection in 7 patients (18.5%). There were 19 (n = 19) patients with Helicobacter pylori was found to be positive (p = 0.695). The frequency of Helicobacter pylori was also not found to be statistically different in the pathologically intestinal lymphangiectasia group. Conclusion: The frequency of duodenal scattered white spot lesions in gastroscopies of patients with dyspeptic complaints was found to be 8.8%. However, the confirmation of intestinal lymphangiectasia with pathology is observed in only a quarter of these patients. The detection of duodenal scattered white spot lesions and intestinal lymphangiectasia, there is no correlation between Helicobacter pylori positivity.Dyspepsia, duodenal scattered white spots lesions, Helicobacter pylori
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 25 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Akademik Gastroenteroloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/agd/issue/72292/1154091
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2574979
