Makale Başlığı: Investigation of Graduate Theses on the Learning Settings in Pre-school Education
Özet: The aim of this study is to examine the national and international master's and doctoral theses related to pre-school education environments. In this study, carried out by content analysis is used convenience sample, is used in the selection of the study group. Researches which investigate was published in “BASE (Bielefeld Academic Search Engine)”, “OATD (Open Access Theses & Dissertations)”, “NZResearch.org.nz”, “ProQuest Dissertations and Theses “, “OpenDissertations.org”, “EThOS”, “DiVA”, “Trove” and “Ulusal Tez Merkezi” database. A "Thesis Examination Form" was developed by the researchers for the purpose of the study in order to examine the Master's and PhD theses reached. As a result of the study, it was determined that 76 of the theses were Master's and 38 of them were PhD theses. It has been seen that the majority of the theses examined were published in the field of education, and the qualitative research method was mostly preferred as the research method. It has been determined that most of the studies are conducted with children and teachers in terms of their distribution according to the sample size. In the theses examined, it was seen that interview and observation methods were mostly preferred as data collection tools. As the results of the theses were examined, it was seen that the majority of the studies identified the deficiencies in pre-school education institutions and that children preferred the natural environment and unstructured materials. Finally, it was found that pre-service/in-service training for teachers was frequently repeated in the suggestions of the theses examined.
Yazar isimleri: ['Özlem Melek ERBİL KAYA', 'Nilay KAPTAN', 'Seda SARIOĞLAN', 'Büşra SOMUNCU']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İnönü Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/inuefd/issue/72592/1033622
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2119854
