Makale Başlığı: Causality Differentiation Between Financial Assets During Covid Era
Özet: The Covid pandemic has differences from the old order in the economic order, as it does in every field. Therefore, investors have to be more careful and selective in the selection of financial assets. We are in a period where investors who adapt to new conditions can increase their returns, and those who cannot adapt may face difficulties. Therefore, the study was conducted to determine whether the causality relationship between various financial assets in Turkey differed during the Covid period. Between 29 January 2018-10 March 2020, the pre-Covid period, 11 March 2020-22 April 2022 was determined as the Covid period. The causality relationship between the variables was investigated with the Toda-Yamamoto test. While the 2-year government bond interest rate was determined as the cause of all other variables in the pre-Covid period, it was determined that this situation disappeared during the Covid period. It has been concluded that the CDS premium and Euro/TL rate variables are the cause of the 2-Year government bond interest rate in the Covid period. In addition, it was determined that exchange rates entered into a two-way causality relationship during the Covid period. Finally, it was determined that the one-way causality relationship from USD/TL rate to CDS premium remained the same both in pre-Covid and Covid periods. It is concluded that the Covid pandemic has an effect on the causal relationship between the financial market and assets in Turkey. For this reason, it is important for market players to realize their investments by considering the new situations that have emerged while managing their funds in terms of their own fund returns.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hidayet GÜNEŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Aurum Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aurum/issue/70478/1108588
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2395193
