Makale Başlığı: ONLINE LEARNING: THE EFFECTS OF USING E-MODULES ON SELF-EFFICACY, MOTIVATION AND LEARNING OUTCOMES
Özet: Teachers’ mastery of learning technologies is highly necessary for the digital era. Among such skills is the ability of teachers to package learning materials using various software. One form of presenting learning materials with technology is an e-module. E-modules serve as the main teaching material in online learning and can also be used in face-to-face learning. The purpose of this study was to analyze the effects of using e-modules on self-efficacy, motivation, and learning outcomes in an online learning environment. This research used a quasi-experimental research design with three pretest-posttest groups. The students involved in this study consisted of the control group without e-modules (Group A), the experimental group using emodules independently (Group B), and the experimental group using e-modules collaboratively (Group C). 30 students per group participated in the Geography Learning Planning course. Data was collected through questionnaires and a 10-item essay test and were exposed to descriptive and inferential statistical analyses. The findings showed that the application of e-module in online learning resulted in significant increases in self-efficacy, motivation, and learning outcomes. The e-modules with the collaborative learning option was the most effective.Teachers’ mastery of learning technologies is highly necessary for the digital era. Among such skills is the ability of teachers to package learning materials using various software. One form of presenting learning materials with technology is an e-module. E-modules serve as the main teaching material in online learning and can also be used in face-to-face learning. The purpose of this study was to analyze the effects of using e-modules on self-efficacy, motivation, and learning outcomes in an online learning environment. This research used a quasi-experimental research design with three pretest-posttest groups. The students involved in this study consisted of the control group without e-modules (Group A), the experimental group using emodules independently (Group B), and the experimental group using e-modules collaboratively (Group C). 30 students per group participated in the Geography Learning Planning course. Data was collected through questionnaires and a 10-item essay test and were exposed to descriptive and inferential statistical analyses. The findings showed that the application of e-module in online learning resulted in significant increases in self-efficacy, motivation, and learning outcomes. The e-modules with the collaborative learning option was the most effective.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Online Journal of Distance Education
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tojde/issue/72877/1182760
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2682025
