Makale Başlığı: Sulṭān ʿAbd al-Majīd's Relations with Aḥmad Quddūsī and the Ṣūfīs of the Period
Özet: The Ottoman Sulṭān ʿAbd al-Majīd (1839-1861), like many other Ottoman sulṭāns, desired to spend time with scholars and ascetics, to meet with them and to win their hearts. He also financially supported them and attached importance to their advice. Ahmed Ziyaeddin (Ḍiyāʾ al-Dīn) Gümüşhanevi (d. 1311/1893), a scholar and Ṣūfī, one of the Naqshī-Khālidī sheikhs, used to meet with ʿAbd al-Majīd at certain times. Sulṭān ʿAbd al-Majīd used to visit mawlawīkhānes whenever he had the opportunity and provided financial support to the Mawlawīs. Dār al-Mathnawis were established during his period, and he was present at the opening of two well-known Dār al-Mathnawis in İstanbul. He joined the Naqshī-Khālidī order and built a lodge. He also built a mausoleum and a zāwiyah for the tomb of Mewlānā Khālid Baghdādī (d. 1242/1827) in Salihiye in Damascus and allocated a budget for their maintenance.He helped some Ṣūfīs become artisans. One of the Ṣūfīs that Sulṭān ʿAbd al-Majīd valued and showed interest in and affection for was Aḥmad Quddūsī (d. 1266/1849). He met Quddūsī and paid attention to his advice, so a sincere friendship developed between them. Quddūsī, in turn, commemorated Sulṭān ʿAbd al-Majīd with blessings and invited people to say prayers for him in his works, particularly in his Dīwān.Quddūsī lived during the reigns of the Ottoman Sulṭāns ʿAbd al-Hamīd (1774-1789), Selīm III (1789-1807), Muṣtafā IV (1808-1839) and ʿAbd al-Majīd, but among these sulṭāns he spoke highly of only ʿAbd al-Majīd, praised his actions and prayed for him. We can comfortably say that, as mentioned earlier, the reason for Quddūsī's praise and admiration for ʿAbd al-Majīd was the sulṭān’s sensitivity in fulfilling his religious obligations and his good relations with the people of the sect. ʿAbd al-Majīd was a sulṭān of mild nature; he was sensitive, compassionate, benevolent, generous and attentive in fulfilling his religious obligations. He would regularly recite the Qurʾān, get involved in charity work and do good deeds. According to Aḥmad Quddūsī, Sulṭān ʿAbd al-Majīd had an honest and a pure heart, as well as being one of the exceptional people of the time. In his Dīwān, Quddūsī states that Sulṭān ʿAbd al-Majīd was very generous, that he felt affection for the righteous servants and friends of Allāh, and that he was generous and gracious to all the people, particularly to the needy. He also mentions in his Dīwān that Sulṭān ʿAbd al-Majīd was a lover of the Ḥaqq, that he liked the lovers of the Ḥaqq and Ṣūfīs, and was proud of them, whereas he disliked people of mischief and fitna and tried to stay away from them. Quddūsī also warns people not to criticize the Caliph Sulṭān ʿAbd al-Majīd in an ignorant way as he thinks that humanity is within the End Times. It is essential that people seek refuge in Allāh Almighty from the fitna and mischief of the End Times, and it is essential that they pray a lot for the Sulṭān and Muslims during such a time. This is because the Islamic world is facing various calamities and fitnas during the End Times. Known for his reformist practices, Sulṭān ʿAbd al-Majīd acted with the awareness that he had to introduce all his innovations in line with the Sharīʿa law. However, he thought that there was no other way but to restructure the state in line with conditions of the time. Therefore, he supported state officials with reformist ideas. He tried to adjust some of the customs and procedures followed by his predecessors. He abolished the custom of the sulṭāns to remain confined in the palace, and he sometimes joined his people and took interest in their problems. In particular, he was present at ijāzah ceremonies organized in mosques and at the exams administered at military schools. He delivered speeches that motivated students and teachers in them.He sometimes travelled around the country to observe the needs of people on the spot and to listen to their complaints. During his reign, the Ottoman people were given the opportunity to act more independently and freely in political, social, cultural and spiritual issues. Sulṭān ʿAbd al-Majīd introduced many educational reforms, gave importance to respected scholars and Ṣūfīs, along with gaining the trust, love and respect of people by helping them in social and economic difficulties. Sulṭān ʿAbd al-Majīd was welcomed and seen off with ceremonies in the cities he visited. Sacrifices were offered for him.
Yazar isimleri: ['Abdulvahap YILDIZ']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Harran İlahiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/hij/issue/73713/1131258
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2488621
