Makale Başlığı: Yaban's disability, Ankara's dream: Yakup Kadri's imagined community
Özet: Yakup Kadri fictionalized the ideas he developed during his involvement in Kadro movement, in his two novels, Yaban and Ankara. At the heart of the Kadro movement, there was a journal with the same name, which was run by a group of intellectuals who took up the mission of the continuation of the reforms of the Republic. The impact of Kadro magazine far acceded its brief life span of merely three years. Yakup Kadri being one of the founders and a writer of the Kadro journal, was directly engaged in the movement and would not be satisfied neither with the victory after the National Independence war, not with the proclamation of the Republic since for him, the real mission would begin right after these achievements. That big task for Yakup Kadri was to definitely severe ties with the Ottoman state, which was seriously crippled after the First World War and to invent a new nation-state. With these in mind, Yakup Kadri first published Yaban, a novel which received harsh criticism in its debut. The protagonist of the novel, Ahmet Celal, is an intellectual from Istanbul, who settles in Anatolia, following the loss of his right arm during the First World War. The right arm of Ahmet Celal, in line with the positive eugenic ideas circulating during the time of the publication of the novel, is the metaphoric expression of the isolation of disabled individuals from the society. Hence, any continuity of the tie with the Ottoman state and the Republic of Turkey would be tantamount to the continuation of the very same disability. Same line of thought can be found, in a more solid way, in Ankara, a novel whose last section displays the imagined Turkey of Yakup Kadri and his fellow Kadro theorists, through the description of Ankara, as a utopic capital city of the country. Eventually, the economic development of a society composed of healthy and sportive individuals would be possible and the Anatolian villages where disability is reflected as the normal in Yaban will be replaced by villages with healthy and joyful people enjoying a European-like prosperity.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1193038
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2724579
