Makale Başlığı: Attributions and Perception of Success in Online Learning: Causal  Dimensionality of Distance Language Learners
Özet: Causal attributions are known as important factors that affect learners' persistence, expectation of future success, motivation and consequently success. This study aims to reveal the perceptions of success, attributions and causal dimension styles of adult learners learning English in different distance education programs in an open education faculty. An open-ended questionnaire and the Causal Dimension Scale (CDSII) were used as data collection tools. The perceptions of success, causal attributions and attribution dimensions of English as a foreign language learners were compared according to their dimensionality styles. The study also aimed to examine participants' dimensionality styles in order to draw conclusions about healthy and unhealthy attribution styles. A questionnaire and the Causal Dimension Scale were administered to 88 volunteer participants who were asked to indicate their perceptions of success and at least one reason behind their perceptions. The results revealed that success-oriented learners outnumbered failure-oriented learners. The most common attributions for success were effort, teacher, and interest, while repeated attributions for failure were lack of effort, lack of interest, and time. Learners who perceive themselves as successful exhibited healthier dimension styles with significantly more internal, controllable and stable attributions. Failure-oriented learners, on the other hand, exhibited more unhealthy styles with more external, stable, and uncontrollable attributions. The findings are discussed in terms of online learning and achievement motivation.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşe TAŞKIRAN']
Yayın Yılı: 10 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Van Yüzüncü Yıl Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yyuefd/issue/73718/1108238
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2393758
