Makale Başlığı: Malaria Disease and Control Methods in Urfa in the Republican Era (1923-1950)
Özet: Malaria, one of the epidemic diseases, has a history as deep as the history of humanity. The fact that the disease turned into an epidemic and became effective on the earth was realized with the effect of the struggle of human beings to dominate nature. The disease, which shows its presence intensely in societies dealing with agriculture, has been one of the epidemics that the people living in this geography have struggled in every period due to the fact that Anatolia is also an agricultural region. With the proclamation of the Republic, the Republic of Turkey pursued a policy of raising a healthy generation. Therefore, the new staff has taken important steps in the fight against malaria in regions where malaria is intense. One of the fields where important steps were taken for the purpose of struggle was Urfa. The reason why Urfa is located in this area is due to the poor health conditions and the fact that most of the people live in rural areas, dealing with animal husbandry and agriculture. Considering all these conditions, the examination process of the people living in the center and districts of Urfa against malaria and the methods used in the fight against the disease will be discussed and the impact of malaria on the society will be emphasized. In particular, the role of the local press in the fight against the disease will be discussed. In this context, in this study on malaria disease and control methods, news in the local press (Akgün, Işık, Urfa Postası, Urfa’da Milli ve Yenilik papers), parliamentary speeches, archive documents and texts published in the Official Gazette were used.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa DAĞ', 'Berna TORKAK']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Şehir ve İrfan Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sehirveirfan/issue/67749/1001619
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1998001
