Makale Başlığı: Investigation of Self-compassion and Hope Levels of Adolescents
Özet: This survey research was conducted to determine the self-compassion and hope levels of adolescents and to examine them in terms of various variables. The data of the study was collected through administering Compassion Scale and the Dispositional Hope Scale to 374 high school students. As a result of the analysis, it was seen that the self-compassion and hope levels of the adolescents were high. It was found that there was a positive and significant relationship between self-compassion and the level of hope. According to the gender variable, it was determined that the self-compassion levels of the boys were higher than the girls’. According to the age variable, the self-compassion levels of the 18-year-olds were higher than the 15, 16 and 17-year-olds’. According to the grade variable, it was found that the self-compassion levels of the 12th graders were higher than the 10th and 11th grade students’. According to the school variable, it was determined that there was no significant difference between the self-compassion levels of the adolescents. Also, according to the gender variable, it was found that the hope levels of boys were higher than the hope levels of girls. According to the age variable, it was found that the hope levels of the 15-year-olds were lower than the 16-, 17- and 18-year-olds’. In addition, it was revealed that the hope levels of the 18-year-olds were higher than the 16- and 17-year-olds’. According to the grade variable, it was determined that the hope levels of the 12th grade students were higher than the 10th and 11th graders’. According to the school variable, it was understood that there was no significant difference between the hope levels of the adolescents.
Yazar isimleri: ['Eşref NAS']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Muş Alparslan Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/maunef/issue/70625/1087055
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2306528
