Makale Başlığı: Spiritual Care During Pregnancy: A Quantitative Application in the Hospital
Özet: In this study, a hospital quantitative application was made within the scope of spiritual care studies for pregnant women and the results were evaluated. For this, it is aimed to make a new contribution to the fields of spirituality and humanity from the perspective of the psychology of religion. For women, pregnancy is a period when both spiritual needs arise and spiritual development is experienced as a stage. In this process, the woman builds a motherhood identity with the bond she has establishing with her baby for nine months. This is a natural process, but there may still be a period of stress or even depression, which will be affected by the changes experienced and the ability to adapt, and psychological health may be affected. For this reason, pregnant women should be followed not only in terms of physical but also in terms of psychological health, and holistic care should be provided and they should be protected from the risks ahead to be experienced. However, pregnancy is also seen as a developmental crisis. Spirituality can be used in coping with this crisis period and changes, and spiritual care can be provided to pregnant women by a spiritual care specialist at the pregnant school in a hospital environment. In this research, an intervention program was prepared for spiritual care professionals. The aim of this program is to support the spiritual empowerment of the pregnant women and to ensure a healthy pregnancy. Because, thanks to the healthy process in womb, a gain will be obtained for the next generation to be healthy with the well-being of the pregnant. This research is the first in the field of psychology of religion to implement a program for pregnant women. Our study is practical and has an experimental design. In this study, first, pregnant women were interviewed in the hospital, and the study and control groups were analyzed quantitatively by using the God perception and religious coping scale. Then, a value-oriented spiritual care program was created and applied to the participants, and a significant difference was obtained by repeating the God perception and religious coping tests. In addition, the postpartum follow-up of the study and control groups was monitored and the Edinburgh postpartum depression scale was applied for the puerperal periods, and a significant difference was obtained in the study group. These differences are; positive in the love-oriented God perception, and lower depression scores in the postpartum depression test compared to the control group.
Yazar isimleri: ['Serpil BAŞAR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Manevi Danışmanlık ve Rehberlik Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tmdrd/issue/71039/1076337
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2264506
