Makale Başlığı: Evaluations of Nursing Care by the Patients in the Postoperative Period
Özet: Aim: The aim of this study was to evaluate nursing care of patients hospitalizedduring the postoperative period.Methods: This descriptive study was conducted with 526 patients who were hospitalized in Surgical Clinics of a University Research Hospital in the province of Erzurum between April 2013 and August 2014. Being collected with form of descriptive characteristics and Nursing Care Assessment Inventory (NCAI), the data were evaluated as number and percentage in categorical measurements and mean and standard deviation in digital measurements.Results: A statistically significant difference was found between the mean scores of physiological factor according to the patients’ complication status, safety factor according to gender, educational status and surgical experience, and the psychosocial factor according to the educational status and surgical experience. Based on educational status and surgical experience, a significant difference was found between the NCAI total mean scores (p<0.05). In total, there was a significant difference between mean scores of NCAI according to the educational status and operation experience (p<0.05). There was a significant difference between all the subscale mean scores and total mean scores according to the clinics where the patients were receiving treatment (p<0.05). However, as a result of the advanced analysis, it was determined that the difference between the mean scores of the subscale of hygienic was not significant. Mean scores of NCAI were higher in patients in the Thoracic Surgery Clinic in Safety and Physiological fields; and in the Plastic and Reconstructive Surgical Clinic in Hygienic, Psychosocial fields and in total. (Thoracic Surgery safety 26.60±4.31, physiological 65.33±10.05; Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery hygienic 24.10±6.32, psychosocial 90.53±18.98, total 204.93±43.50)Conclusion: In general, it could be asserted that patients are satisfied with the nursing care. The level of satisfaction with nursing care differs among all mean scores, except for the hygienic care factor, descriptive characteristics of the patients and the clinics they receive care from.Keywords: Nurse; Nursing Care; Patient Satisfaction.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zehra ÜNAL', 'Nadiye ÖZER']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Samsun Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jshs/issue/72266/1094703
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2337836
