Makale Başlığı: .Footnote Analysis Based upon Robert Larose’s Teleological Translation Model: Istanbul Trilogy
Özet: The integrative teleological, purpose-oriented translation model proposed by Robert Larose underlies this study conducted to contribute to the development of the science of translation. Translations of the French works written by Gisele Durero Köseoğlu, Istanbul Trilogy I: Windows from Istanbul, Istanbul Trilogy II: A Manuscript in Istanbul, Istanbul Trilogy III: Secrets of Istanbul, constitute the object of the study. It was aimed to contribute to the development of applied translation science by integrating Larose’s integrative translation model with footnote translations. At the same time, the works named Istanbul Trilogy were analyzed within the scope of paratexts propounded by Gérard Genette. Genette’s concepts of transtextuality, paratextuality, and intertextuality were examined and discussed within the framework of transtextuality by reviewing the function of paratextual elements. The footnote translations were evaluated within the context of the textual approach on which Larose focused, and the ‘’prerequisites’’ and ‘’enunciation conditions’’ were tried to be determined for translation within the scope of the integrative model. The term ‘translatometry’ was adopted in response to the French term ‘’traductométrie’’ suggested by Larose, and with this term, a reference was made to a model that measures and evaluates translation. The aspects such as the asymmetrical nature of the equivalency concept, the similarity structure of the translation, and the gain-loss ratio in translation were examined within the context of the translation metric method. This study was carried out as a reflection of the effort to integrate Larose’s footnotes and translations with translational inquiries based on his teleological translation model. An effort was made to present a predecessor study demonstrating that Larose’s phenomenon of teleological translation can be adapted to translation studies.
Yazar isimleri: ['Dilber ZEYTİNKAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Çeviribilim ve Uygulamaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ceviri/issue/71589/1067923
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2231511
