Makale Başlığı: THE IMPACT OF THE APPLICATION OF THE “ACADEMIC INSTITUTIONS ETHICS CODE MODEL” IN UNIVERSITIES ON STAKEHOLDER GROUPS: A RESEARCH
Özet: The concept of ethics has been emphasized and cited frequently in the academic field as in all areas of life in recent years. In the world we live in, ethical codes (rules) are necessary for the successful execution of research and application activities. In addition, ethical codes are of great importance for the development of individual, social and institutional relations. The aim of the study is to analyze the effectiveness of ethical codes (rules) on the relations of state universities with stakeholder groups within the framework of the Development Model of Ethical Effectiveness. Finally, a study has been conducted based on the dimensions of the Development Model of Ethical Effectiveness to measure the effectiveness of ethical codes in state universities. State universities, which are among Higher Education Institutions, constituted the scope of the research. In the research, the data collected by the questionnaire covering 393 academic and administrative staff were analyzed in the SPSS (20.0) program. First, Cronbach's Alpha values for the scale used in the questionnaire applied in state universities were calculated in terms of reliability analysis. Significant differences between universities were determined with the scale sizes, One-Way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) and Welch Test. Bonferroni, Scheffe, LSD and Tamhane’s tests were applied to research the sources of difference. According to the Development Model of Ethical Effectiveness; Nine of the hypotheses developed according to the results of the tests carried out by evaluating the state universities participating in the survey on the basis of the dimensions of the model were confirmed and the other three could not be confirmed. It can be said that the ethical codes of 23 universities within the scope of the study positively affect all other relations of the university (except 3 dimensions).
Yazar isimleri: ['Saim ALTAY', 'Oğuzhan AYDEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 6 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Trakya Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/trakyasobed/issue/70085/918402
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1711992
