Makale Başlığı: AN EXAMINATION OF FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION STUDENTS' PERSPECTIVE TRANSFORMATION WITH TRANSFORMATIVE LEARNING ACTIVITIES: A QUANTITATIVE RESEARCH
Özet: Transformative Learning Theory is one of the adult learning theories. It shares the androgogic basis in defining adult learners. Transformative learning is a process in which learners experience personal and social change in the light of newly acquired knowledge. From this point of view, the aim of this study is to thoroughly examine the changes that the learning activities prepared for the English lesson caused in the students' perspective transformations. "Pretest-Posttest Quasi-Experimental Design with Control Group" was used as a method in the research. Since the research is an experimental study, the population and sample selection was not made, instead the study group was assigned. Before the experimental procedure, King's Learning Activities Questionnaire was administered to both groups as a pretest. The experimental process was started the week after the application of the questionnaires. According to the procedure followed in practice, the experimental group were taught a total of 18 hours of English education, 3 hours a week for 6 weeks, with the activities prepared based on transformative learning, and the control group were taught with the methods determined by the current program that the researcher always followed in the lectures. At the end of the 6-week period, Learning Activities questionnaire was applied to the experimental group as a posttest. In the analysis of the data, descriptive statistics (percentage, frequency), Chi-Square Test of Independence and Related Samples t-Test were used. As a result of the research, it was concluded that activities based on transformative learning were effective in transforming students' perspectives in the English lesson.
Yazar isimleri: ['Asım ARI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Afro-Avrasya Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijar/issue/72188/1147559
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2553075
