Makale Başlığı: The Future of Phage-Mediated Biocontrol of Tomato Bacterial Diseases
Özet: Phytopathogenic bacteria cause significant economic losses in tomato production. Tomato bacterial spot, speck, wilt and cancer disease agents are the most important phytopathogens that cause damage to tomatoes. Chemical methods have been generally used to control these diseases. However, the disadvantages of chemicals like development of resistance in bacterial strains, damage to non-target microorganisms and undesirable effects on the environment have increased the interest in alternative control strategies for sustainable agriculture. The use of bacteriophages, virus infecting bacteria, provides a remarkable alternative in controlling bacterial diseases of tomato. On the other hand, phage-mediated control strategies have three main limitations which are emergence of resistance in bacteria, stability during storage and persistence in the environment. The development of resistance can be mitigated or prevented using phage cocktails. In addition, encapsulation methods such as lyophilization (freeze-drying), emulsification and spray drying can be used for prolonging shelf life and increase the efficacy in field conditions. Studies on the use of phages against tomato bacterial diseases remained mostly as laboratory experiments, and except AgriPhage, a commercialized product, there is no product that can be used to treat diseases under field conditions. The use of eco-friendly products based on bacteriophages is very important for sustainable agriculture. This review compiled information on useful formulation of phage and phages identified in combating four tomato bacterial diseases which was determined as bacterial canker, bacterial speck, bacterial wilt and bacterial spot.
Yazar isimleri: ['Duygu BEKİRCAN ESKİ', 'Ardahan ESKİ', 'Cihan DARCAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Agricultural Biotechnology
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/joinabt/issue/71043/1093661
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2333592
