Makale Başlığı: New Public Management and The Turkish Education System: A Review on Government Programs
Özet: The aim of this study is to examine the effect of the new public management approach, which is one of the most important issues of public administration theorists and practitioners, on the field of education through government programs. As a common practice throughout the world after 1980, the principles and programs of the new public management approach began to settle in Turkish public administration simultaneously. Despite the thirty years that have passed since then, the approach, which is shown as the most important concept after the Weberian bureaucracy in the history of public administration, maintains its validity and renews itself according to current conditions. The basic principles and elements of the approach are effective in all areas of public administration such as education, health, security and justice and have the feature of being one of the priority concepts of the governments that will rule the state. In this sense, it is the subject of political policies and programs, and this understanding is reflected in government programs and affects the governments to be established. Education, which is one of the managerial areas affected by the new public management approach, is also included in government programs as a sector that concerns almost every segment of the society. The limited number of studies that deal with the subject with a holistic approach in sub-fields of management such as education and health make the current study important. In this study, which deals with government policies in terms of education, it is seen that the new public management approach has made its impact in the field of education, especially since the 1980s, and this effect is independent of parties and ideologies. In this study, which is seen to have an important contribution to the politics of ideological affinity, It is understood that there are more and more concrete targets in the field of education, especially since 2002, compared to previous periods. In this context, first of all, the new public management approach and how it is reflected in the education system will be discussed. Then, the impact of the approach on the Turkish education system and government programs will be examined.
Yazar isimleri: ['Leyla ÇİFTÇİ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: İktisadi ve İdari Yaklaşımlar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jeaa/issue/67560/992237
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1961542
