Makale Başlığı: Ecological Balance Element "Blowflies"
Özet: These flies, known as "Flying Fly" or "Carrion Fly" in our country, are from the Calliphoridae family. The common name known in the world is "Blowflies". Members of the Calliphoridae family have metallic bright blue, green or black chest and abdomen colors. The hairs in the head area are black in color. The difference in the shape of the acrophallus in the genitals is one of the distinguishing features for these families. In adult flies, the postscutellum in the thorax are well developed, the hypopleural setae are hard and the propleron structures are hairy. These very noisy flies are slightly larger than houseflies, with an average size of 8-10 mm. They are scavengers that live on carrion or manure. The Calliphoridae family has the ability to detect the smell of dead animals from 1.6 km. They are also known as the first animals to come into contact with carrion. Members of Calliphoridae usually lay their eggs on the carcasses of dead animals or in fresh feces. These larvae, which feed on rotting meat, have an important role in the cleaning of nature. There are numerous reports of the use of these fly larvae on open wounds to remove decaying tissue and prevent bacterial growth during wartime. Calliphoridae larvae were not only used during wartime, but also had an important place in the medical field. Non-healing wounds were treated with medical maggots left on bacteria and infected tissue. This method has also been used in ulcer treatment, diabetic wound control, and postoperative wound healing. Calliphoridae larvae also have an important place in forensic biology. By making use of the developmental stages of the flies that lay their eggs on the corpse a few minutes after the death event occurred, the solution of forensic cases became easier with the minimum time of death, determination of the crime scene and determination of the cause of death. This type of research that provides important information is included in the fields of study of "forensic entomology" or "medicocriminal entomology". Scavenger flies, which are an important element of the ecological balance, also have harmful effects. Calliphorids cause the transport of microorganisms as they feed on all kinds of plant and animal waste, garbage, putrid food and feces. Thus, they affect the spread of various intestinal diseases, tuberculosis, tularami and brucella.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 7 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Bilim Armonisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bilar/issue/72508/1171932
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2636488
