Makale Başlığı: Positions of Ulema in Explaining the Levels of Tawkîd in the Qur'an A Short Study Supported by Examples
Özet: For its importance and position among other language and rhetoric issues, the subject of tawkîd is one of the issues that rhetoric scholars and syntax scholars place a high value on. In linguistics and rhetoric, this phenomenon refers to compound facts that come to strengthen, confirm, and consolidate speech, whether the word is singular or at the sentence level. Imam Abdulkahir Cürcânî, in his work called Delâilü'l-İ'câz, emphasized the important role of tawkid in terms of supporting and strengthening the meaning, reinforcing it at the level of the addressee and preserving the harmony of the word in different positions. In addition, Jürcânî divided the word (word) into groups in order to explain the types of tawkîd, its styles and the different factors required by the position and the addressee. We see that Imam Zerkeşî also talks about the 28 style of tawqid in the Qur'an in his work al-Burhan. Again, while Zerkeşî is talking about tawkît, he says that it is the leader of the cavalry, the leading horse without soldiers, the first couplet of the ghazal, the jewel in the middle of the necklace, the apple of the eye of man, the pearl of the crown and the greatest purpose of the Qur'an.2 One of the points pointing to the importance of tawkîd in the eyes of nahw scholars is Ibn-i Junni's evaluation of tawkid under the title of characteristic features of Arabic. He named tawkîd as "ihtiyat" (importance), and then mentioned many types and styles of tawkîd in his work called "el-Hasais". Again, we see that this phenomenon is mentioned a lot in the Qur'an. The scholars of rhetoric have tried hard to reveal the reasons why this phenomenon is mentioned a lot in the Qur'an and examined its styles in the Qur'an. At the beginning of these scholars, Imam Abdulkahir; then Zamakhshari comes. In his work called Keşşâf, Zemahşerî completed what Imam Abdulkahir had started and paved the way for the application of the rules of rhetoric to the divine book Qur'an. Many commentators followed in the footsteps of these two knowledges. They provided a summary, analysis, comments, and additions to what the previous commentators, Imam Abdulkahir and Allama Zemahşeri, had said. Imam Beyzavi and Abu Saud Efendi are two of the most prominent of these scholars. The purpose of this article was to examine the ulema's stance in explaining the levels of tawkîd in the Qur'anic statement, as well as to examine the various reasons and styles of tawkîd in the eyes of rhetoric scholars, and to present new ideas and opinions in this regard. Furthermore, we have mentioned in this study that rhetoric scholars, along with syntax scholars, contributed to the explanation of the levels of tawkîd according to the addressee's position, and that the last period rhetoric scholars, particularly Ibn Ashur, were not mere imitators of the scholars who came before them; on the contrary, we will conclude that they have revealed new eloquence secrets with their superior abilities. We divided our research into four sections: the preface, the introduction, the three parts, and the conclusion. We discussed the importance of tawkîd in the rhetoric lesson and the perspectives of rhetoric scholars in the preface. The degrees of tawkîd in Arabic are discussed in the first section, and the degrees of tawkid in the Qur'an are discussed in the second section. In the third section, we discussed the degrees of tawqid in the Qur'an, specifically "the believers' attainment of Allah's help in this world's life."
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammed Murtaza ÇAVUŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Kalemname
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kalemname/issue/70521/1113322
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2414174
