Makale Başlığı: AN OVERVIEW OF THE CRASSUS IN TERMS OF WORLD HISTORY ACCORDING TO RUSSIAN SOURCES
Özet: At the request and promises of the European Catholic Christians of the Pope, VII. The marches they organized to establish military, political and religious authority over the lands of the Middle East, which had been in the hands of Muslims since the 19th century, take place in history as "crusades" or "crusaders". Since Jesus was born in Jerusalem, they called the region and the surrounding lands "holy lands" and declared these marches as holy wars in their way. In addition, Christian soldiers participating in the expedition put the Red Cross on their chests and shields, so they were called "Crusaders". The first and third of the eight crusades left their mark as the heaviest campaign in history. Except for the first and fourth of these campaigns, the kings who dominated all other campaigns also participated. On the other hand, the Crusades were a religious, political, and military operation that started not only against Muslims but also from Western Europe between the XI.- XV. centuries. It started as an effort to save Jerusalem, which they accepted as the Holy city of Christianity in Palestine between 1096-1272. The terms "Crusaders" and "Crusades" in a broader sense are used by the Popes of Rome as a religious-military operation, first against the Seljuk Turks and later against the Ottoman Empire to implement the policy of Christianizing the people of the Baltic states and suppress heretical and anti-religious tendencies in Europe and left its mark on history. The Seljuks, who conquered the Muslim regions of the Middle East, conquered the Byzantine lands, and the Byzantine Emperor IV. The Romans tried to stop the Muslims, but the Byzantine army was crushed in the battle of Manzikert in 1071. After that, the Byzantines no longer had the strength to resist. Slowly advancing westward, the Seljuks continued the Crusades, taking almost all of Asia Minor from Byzantium. In this study, the views and approaches about the crusades in terms of world history were evaluated by examining Russian sources.
Yazar isimleri: ['Vesile ŞEMŞEK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Sinop Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sinopusd/issue/73612/1138751
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2518615
