Makale Başlığı: A Statistical Study Examining the Effect of World Grain Production and Yield on Carbon Dioxide Emissions
Özet: In this study; by examining the effect of world grain production and yield on CO2 emissions statistically, it is aimed to reveal that the inputs used in the cereal crops to be produced in the future should be consumed more consciously in the light of the results obtained. In the study, the short and long-term relationships between grain production (MT), yield (kg/ha) and CO2 emission (kt) in the world between January 1961 and January 2018 were examined, and the logarithm of grain production, yield and CO2 emission series was used to determine the relationship between the serial variables. The long-term relationship was examined by cointegration and causality analyses. Then, impulse-response and variance decomposition analyzes were created. In the study, the existence of a long-term cointegration relationship between the variables was determined, and a long-term positive relationship was determined between grain yield, production and CO2, respectively, according to FMOLS, DOLS and CCR methods. Accordingly, it was determined that 1% increase in grain yield led to 1.80% increase in CO2 emission, 1% increase in grain production led to 1.30% increase in CO2 emission. The existence of a two-way causality relationship has been determined. According to the results of Variance Decomposition Analysis; It is possible to state that the changes in CO2 emission are mostly caused by itself and other variables that are not included in the model. However, it can be said that the changes in CO2 in the following years occurred at an increasing rate from grain production and yield. It is suggested that studies should be carried out to reduce the detected rates.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gizem KAMÇI', 'Behiye BİCER']
Yayın Yılı: 10 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Dicle Üniversitesi Fen Bilimleri Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dufed/issue/68454/1081306
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2283725
