Makale Başlığı: The Motif of Killing the Elders in Tales and Legends
Özet: The killing of the elderly (senicide) is a phenomenon that has been discussed by scientific societies for a long time and has even been accepted by some scientists. The phenomenon in question is considered a type of “euthanasia” nowadays. In oral lores collected from various parts of the world, the motif of killing the elderly in many variants is evident. The motif in question has spread from Europe to Asia and even parts of Africa. It has been seen that this motif is also used slightly in Turkish narratives as well. The killing of the elderly can take place in many different ways in folk narratives. In the legends and tales with the motif of killing the elderly, it is seen that the narrative is established on the axis of the continuation and termination of the traditions. In this article; The situation of the individual being stuck between tradition and himself through the motif of killing the elderly in folk narratives is addressed. The different variants of this motif in the word are stated, and these variants are compared with one another. The reasons for the emergence of these variants, the role of the elderly in society, and why elderly people are wanted dead are expressed in folk narratives. The killing of the elderly in accordance with the traditions, the effect of people on its continuity by opposing this tradition openly or secretly after a while, and their role in the disappearance of the tradition of killing the elderly, are addressed. The tendency of an individual to kill, the role of other people in these tendencies, and the acceptance of death by the elderly itself in order to adhere to the traditions are analyzed in the article from a social and psychological point of view. This article aims to shed even a dim light on the effects of narratives on the people around the world and in particular their thoughts.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bora YILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Yüzüncü Yıl Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yyusbed/issue/72889/1160093
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2588505
