Makale Başlığı: SAVUNMA TEDARİK KONUSUNDA YAPILAN ÇALIŞMALARIN BİBLİYOMETRİK ANALİZİ
Özet: The supply chain can be defined as the network that includes the procurement of raw materials needed in production, the conversion of these materials into the final product, and the distribution of these products to the customers. Defense acquisition includes designing, testing, contracting, producing, delivering to the user, providing logistic support, life cycle of products and systems needed for national defense such as tanks, warplanes, unmanned aerial vehicles, helicopters, airplanes, missiles, electronic systems. Defense acquisition requires different strategies from classical supply chain management, both because it is critical for the national defense of countries and because products adapt to changing technology. In the literature, especially in recent years, the subject of defense procurement is among the remarkable issues. In this study, bibliometric analysis was carried out for the studies on defense procurement in the literature. With the bibliometric analysis, it is aimed to be a guide for researchers on topics such as which keywords researchers can search for, which publications can be taken as the main source, in which journals the studies on this subject are concentrated, and which titles will gain importance for future studies. In the research, studies on defense procurement in the Web of Science database were examined. Web of Science database was used to perform the bibliometric analysis of the studies. Analyzes were performed using the VOSViewer program. In the last part of the study, the results obtained were interpreted and suggestions were made for future studies.
Yazar isimleri: ['Beste DESTİCİOĞLU', 'Merve ASİLOĞULLARI AYAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: SAVSAD Savunma ve Savaş Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/savsad/issue/70399/1134266
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2501003
