Makale Başlığı: Exploring students' experiences of interprofessional education to improve quality learning outcomes
Özet: Interprofessional education (IPE) is a practical pedagogical approach to strengthening teaching and learning in higher education to improve students' competencies. These competencies include an enhanced understanding of content knowledge and skills from different professions. To ensure quality teaching and learning, it is envisaged that IPE will strengthen and advance the knowledge and skills of students. The COVID-19 pandemic offered the opportunity to adopt multiple approaches to support students in acquiring the knowledge, skills, values and attitudes towards the programme through the support of interprofessional educators and resources. However, there is a lack of research to explore students' experiences and views on IPE in an acupuncture programme within the South African context, particularly with technologies. This study was anchored in the Technological, Pedagogical, Content Knowledge model as a theoretical lens to explore students' experiences of the IPE using technologies. The authors employed an interpretivist paradigm within a qualitative case study design. They used purposive sampling as a technique since the participants in this study were acupuncture students at a South African university. The researchers interviewed six (6)undergraduate students for this study. The findings revealed that students showed positive attitudes towards IPE. They believed the IPE would improve their competencies in clinical practice. Results also suggested that specific programmes should allocate sufficient time for IPE. Institutions should provide professional training to academics since IPE require more comprehensive content knowledge and pedagogical approaches. To promote effective teaching and learning, IPE should be the norm at universities. Universities should provide relevant support for the appropriate implementation of IPE from policy and resource perspectives.
Yazar isimleri: ['Roy VENKETSAMY', 'Zijing HU', 'Radmila RAZLOG']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal for the Education of Gifted Young Scientists
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jegys/issue/71129/1126020
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2466654
