Makale Başlığı: Servant Leadership Perceptions of Primary School Teachers About School Administrators Investigation Content
Özet: This research aims to determine the level of servant leadership perceptions of primary school teachers about school administrators and to find out whether they vary according to demographic factors. In this researc. The research is made with a total of 208 primary school teachers working in public primary schools affiliated with the Ministry of National Education in the Küçükçekmece District of Istanbul in the 2020- 2021 academic year. Within the scope of the research, demographic information form is used in addition to the servant leadership scale. "Servant Leadership Scale" improved by Aslan and Özata (2011) includes 3 dimensions and 14 questions. "Servant Leadership Scale" is categorized as empowerment, service and vision. To analyze the data, SPSS 26.00 program is used. T test, standard deviation, arithmetic mean are used in the analysis of the data. According to the consequences of the analysis of the data, it was determined that the perceptions of the classroom teachers about the school administrators are at a high level. It is determined that the empowerment sub-dimension of Servant leadership perception is high: Service subdimension is moderate and Vision sub-dimension is high. Primary school  teachers' perceptions of servant leadership about school administrators are viewed according to the variables of gender, educational status, marital status, and graduation status. Primary school teachers' perceptions of servant leadership differ considerably according to the variables of graduation status and educational status. The considerable difference that emerged is for the benefit of those who graduated from other faculties and graduates. Primary school teachers' perceptions of servant leadership do not show a statistically substantial difference according to gender and marital status. As a conclusion, in-service trainings on servant leadership behaviors can be given to school administrators and it can be suggested to increase their education levels.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hatice VATANSEVER BAYRAKTAR', 'Orhan KORKMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 5 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: EKEV Akademi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sosekev/issue/72929/1135318
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2505363
