Makale Başlığı: ASSOCIATION BETWEEN PSYCHOLOGICAL UPSET AND IRRITABLE BOWEL SYNDROME AMONG NURSING STUDENTS AT KSA
Özet: Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a fairly common disorder that occurs in the general population. IBS is a functional bowel disorder associated with decreased work productivity. The aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between psychological upset and irritable bowel syndrome among nursing students at the Hafr Albatin University king Saudi Arabia. A descriptive cross-sectional research design on 223 student nurses from Hafr Al Batin university. One tool is divided into three main parts; demographic data, student's psychological upset, and irritable bowel syndrome manifestations sheet. According to the results of the study there is a statistically significant correlation between students' psychological stiffness and manifestations of irritable bowel syndrome (p <0.001). Also, there are statistically significant relationships were found between psychological stiffness levels and students' Socio-demographic characteristics in the items related to sleeping hours, and the condition of the colon or manifestations of irritable bowel syndrome during exposure to psychological stress((p <0.001). This study recommends that students need to receive regular; periodic in-service psychological adaptation program that contains methods of coping with study stress, especially during exams period which indirectly added stressor to students' psychological upset. There is an obvious need for designed exam counseling preparation. Further studies are needed to study the factors that influence university students' psychological and physiological well-being during the study & exam period rather than stressors.
Yazar isimleri: ['Manal SOLİMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Health Services Research and Policy
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijhsrp/issue/72355/1040146
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2146498
