Makale Başlığı: EXAMPLE OF PILOT REGION EXECUTED WITHIN THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PLAN: ALTINÖZÜ DISTRICT PRACTICE
Özet: Although the development effort has been the main purpose of societies since the 18th century, its intensive introduction to both the economic literature and the programs of the governments coincides with  the end of the Second World War. The Republic of Turkey developed a state policy with the 1961 Constitution. For this purpose, the State Planning Organization was established and the five-year development plans were prepared. One of the important goals of the Development Plans was to ensure social justice. Social justice could only be achieved by eliminating the income imbalance between different segments of the society. For this purpose, special plans were designed for the development of rural areas. Even a section titled “Community Development” was included in the First Five-Year Development Plan. Six pilot regions were selected across Turkey and a special development program was implemented for these regions. If the practices in these six regions would yield successful results, special programs would be prepared and implemented for each district of Turkey in the next fifteen years. One of the six selected pilot regions was Altınözü District of Hatay. The implementation and the follow-up Altınözü development program, which was prepared in 1963, was transferred to the Ministry of Rural Affairs in 1964. Studies were carried out for the implementation of this program in 28 villages of Altınözü and 116 different projects were prepared. However, only 75 of them have been put into effect. Until 1967, 71 projects were completed. This application, which gave successful results, was unfortunately not included in the  following development plans.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet YILDIRIM']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Hatay Mustafa Kemal Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/hmkusbed/issue/70758/1080650
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2281143
