Makale Başlığı: A QUALITATIVE STUDY ON THE USE OF THE TEVERRUK FINANCING METHOD BY PARTICIPATING BANKS
Özet: The tawarruq model is one of the funding methods used by participation banks. It is a method of obtaining cash by receiving a valuable mine in advance from a broker and selling it to the client in installments, and then selling the said mine in advance to another broker with a power of attorney obtained from the client. The cash received due to the sale of the precious metal belonging to the customer is given to the customer. Although not all of the participation banks have used the teverruk method until recently, it is one of the methods of obtaining funds used by some in Turkey. Participation banks use this model, which is realized by trading method, because they do not make gratuitous borrowing in accordance with their principles. In this study, which was conducted in the form of face-to-face interviews with participation banks operating in Turkey, it was tried to determine whether they are already using the teverruk model. Some of the participation banks working in accordance with Islamic principles have stated that they use this model within the framework of strictly defined conditions. However, it has been determined that some participation banks have also made their customers use this model by stating that they have the necessary permissions to use it. As a result of the study, it was seen that some of the participation banks consider that the teverruk model is an alternative to loans made in commercial banks.Because of this idea, it has been understood that they argue that this model should be used to prevent individuals with interest sensitivity from being forced to choose commercial banks. It has been determined that some participation banks think that the teverruk model is a method that is used provided that there are very mandatory reasons, so they do not want the use of this method to become too widespread.
Yazar isimleri: ['İbrahim ÇEMBERLİTAŞ', 'Nazan GÜNGÖR KARYAĞDI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Bingöl Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://busbed.bingol.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/73192/1116570
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2427390
