Makale Başlığı: DÜŞKÜNLÜK AND DÜŞKÜN KALDIRMA METHODS AT KEÇECİ BABA LODGE
Özet: With the arrival of Horasan saints in Anatolia in the 13th century and the establishment of hearth system, which developed upon the spread and institutionalization of Alevism among nomadic communities, had an impact on the Alevi belief and social structure. The worship system, which is maintained on the axis of the mürşit, pir, rehber, dede, and talip, also constitutes the framework of the social law system. The names of the ocaks are mentioned with the names of the saints they are affiliated with. It is seen that the founders of the hearths must come from the family of the ahlibeyt, show miracles and serve, and it is seen that those who have one or more of these aspects usually set up a hearth. The duty of dede continues to be carried out by the "Ocakzades" who are the descendants of the aforementioned saints. The Alevi way to say this is "Hak, Muhammed, Ali". The Alevi ocak system, which is active in social life, made its own definition of "crime" while applying justice and applied its punishments in accordance with the method. The way and the method of Alevism, which has come down to the present day with oral culture, continues in the same way in very few hearths. Keçeci Baba, who came to Anatolia in the 13th century and is estimated to be one of the last members of the Ahi organization, established a zawiyah in the region called Fakihs and later known as Keçeci village. “Keçeci Baba Ocağı”, founded by Seyyid Ahi Mahmud Veli, still exists in the Keçeci village of Erbaa district in Tokat, by the dedes who are Keçeci Baba Ocakzades, together with their methods. Although the concept of düşkünlük and düşkün kaldırma in Alevism has been adequately researched, Keçeci Baba Ocağı has not been dealt with comprehensively together with his methods before. It is emphasized that the rules to be followed by the aspirants while applying the methods are determined according to the Order of Cafer-i Sadık, the sixth imam, and it is stated that Keçeci Baba's lineage goes back to Imam Musa Kazım. In this study, it is aimed to explain the concepts of düşkünlük, düşkün kaldırma and punishment, which are observed and experienced together with the practices of Mahmut Koç, one of the Dedes of Keçeci Baba Ocağı, by explaining them with their foundations taken from Kur'an.
Yazar isimleri: ['Funda ŞİRİNOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 3 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Kültürü ve Hacı Bektaş Veli Araştırma Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tkhcbva/issue/73734/1122079
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2450327
