Makale Başlığı: Nursing Approach In Individuals With Malnutrition With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Özet: Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is among the leading causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide. It has been reported that the prevalence of malnutrition in individuals with COPD varies between 20% and 50%. Although malnutrition has negative effects on lung functions, immunity, exercise capacity and quality of life, it also causes consequences such as increased health care costs and prolonged hospital stay. Malnutrition and loss of muscle mass affect the respiratory muscle function and exercise capacity of individuals. While respiratory failure is a cause for malnutrition, nutritional status itself can adversely affect respiratory system functions. Decreased appetite and exercise intolerance caused by malnutrition reduce the strength of the respiratory muscles, which further exacerbates the problems in COPD patients. Malnutrition is an important problem in individuals with COPD, but it is often overlooked during the management of the disease. It is important to evaluate the nutritional status of individuals with COPD, determine the risk group and apply appropriate interventions to the risk group. With the implementation of the correct interventions determined based on the guidelines, it is ensured that the food intake of the patients and thus the clinical results are improved.  Within a multidisciplinary team, nurses should be able to identify individuals at risk of malnutrition with COPD, identify patients with malnutrition and implement a care plan for a balanced and adequate nutrition. In this review article, it is aimed to identify malnutrition and COPD patients with malnutrition risk, to evaluate malnutrition status and to explain nursing interventions in the light of current literature and guidelines.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gizem ÖZBUDAK', 'Öznur USTA YEŞİLBALKAN', 'Asiye AKYOL']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Hemşirelik Fakültesi Elektronik Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/deuhfed/issue/71208/931900
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1747950
