Makale Başlığı: The Issue of Consistency Between the Footnotes Given and the Main Source Referred in the Footnotes in Translated Works (Example of “Hayri Kırbaşoğlu: Hadis Müdafaası”)
Özet: The consistency of the information given in academic and scientific studies with footnotes and the information in the address shown as footnotes also increases the confidence in the scientific study.  This consistency is even more important, especially in direct quotations.  Besides quotations, comparison, short reference to familiar story, to narrative, summary presentation etc.  footnotes types can also be used.  In these cases, abbreviations or explanatory sentences should be given, such as see (see), compare (cf.), see for similar narrations, which indicate the relationship and connection between the quotation and the footnote.  If this is not the case, footnotes are generally understood as quotations.We examined Ibn Kutaybe's book called "Te'vilü Muhtelifi'l-Hadis" and its translation titled "Hadis Müdafaası" (Hadith Defense) by Hayri Kırbaşoğlu in terms of footnote-reference source relationship and consistency. In the Arabic of Ta'wil, the places of the verses are shown, but the "originals of the hadiths'' (Hadith with full reference list) is not made. On the other hand, Kırbaşoğlu has given the "the originals of the hadiths" in the translation.  Based on these interpretations, we tried to find and compare the Arabic of the translation in Ta'wil and its place in the Sahih of Bukhari, which is given only or some times as the primary source of the main hadith sources given in the footnotes.As a result of our comparison, it is particularly noteworthy that there are: hadiths that are not in the place indicated as the source in the footnotes, that some hadiths are missing, that have differences in subject, and that there are hadiths that are not related to the subject mentioned in the main text and translation of Ta'wil.
Yazar isimleri: ['Abdülkadir PALABIYIK']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/deuifd/issue/73877/1150252
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2563019
