Makale Başlığı: A Return from the Modern Novel to the Traditional Novel: An Overview of the Metropolis and the Era in Alfred Döblin’s ‘Pardon wird nicht gegeben’
Özet: The 1800s was a century that saw the development of industrialization and changes in social structure. In those years, immigration from the countryside to the cities increased and the bourgeoisie tried to become prominent regarding the capital and have control of the economy. Besides, the laboring class and proletarians wanted to have rights. Owing to, on the one hand, the conflicts caused by the class distinctions, on the other hand the complexity of city life, the metropolis attracted the attention of the novelists; and thus, they produced great works in this genre. Alfred Döblin, famous for his novel Berlin Alexander Square, in our country, is known as the pioneer of the modern novel in German Literature due to the techniques he employed in this novel. While Döblin used such new techniques as interior monologue, montage and cinematic techniques in Berlin Alexander Square written in 1929, he seems to have returned to the ways of story-telling of the traditional novel in Pardon wird nicht gegeben, which he wrote in 1935 and has been translated into Turkish with the title Acımak Yok meaning No Pity. Thus, no traces of the innovations employed in Berlin Alexander Square are not seen in this novel. In Pardon wird nicht gegeben, there are also autobiographical elements, the incidents are given in a chronological order, and flashbacks are rarely seen. Compared to Berlin Alexander Square, Pardon wird nicht gegeben, which did not create many repercussions, was accepted as a very successful novel by the Marxist literary critic due to its realistic style. This study aims to analyze Pardon wird nicht gegeben in terms of its formal and thematic aspects by briefly touching on its historical background.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Diyalog Interkulturelle Zeitschrift Für Germanistik
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/diyalog/issue/73786/1217571
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2825441
