Makale Başlığı: Anorexia Nervosa and Liver Health
Özet: Anorexia Nervosa (AN) is, which means loss of nervous appetite, a psychiatric disorder characterized by low body weight, continuous food restriction, and impaired body perception. AN, which can be seen in all age groups, usually begins in early and middle adolescence and is more common in women than men. Individual with anorexia nervosa exhibit certain behaviors (such as self-vomiting, laxative-diuretic use, excessive exercise) to limit energy intake or compensate for the energy received. As a result, medical complications may develop which may affect all organs directly related to body weight loss.  In the literature, it is indicated that an increase of AN-specific hepatic complications. It has been suggested that autophagy, which is induced by causes hepatocyte damage and death, is the main mechanism leading to liver dysfunction in AN. Increased aminotransferase levels and progression of liver damage cause hypoglycemia, a serious complication. In the treatment of anorexia nervosa, a joint approach with a team of psychiatry, nutrition, and medical experts should be applied. Medical nutritional therapy should be planned in accordance with the needs of the individuals to ensure to achieve energy intake and weight gain. Besides, it is beneficial to give additional nutritional education to the individuals for improving regular eating habits and behavioral change. Studies have shown that medical nutritional therapy is effective in improving liver function disorders and medical conditions associated with hepatic complications in individuals with AN. In this review, common hepatic complications and the effects of medical nutritional therapy on liver dysfunction have been investigated.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kübra UÇAR', 'Aylin AÇIKGÖZ PINAR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Celal Bayar Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cbusbed/issue/72808/1012038
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2035655
