Makale Başlığı: A Study on People Applying to Magicians
Özet: The history of sorcery and magic is as old as the history of mankind. The purpose of the present study was to examine the characteristics of the individuals who apply to people who cast spells, their reasons for applying, their attitudes and behaviors towards sorcery and sorcerers. The data of the study, which was based on a Qualitative Research Design, were obtained from the interviews conducted with 10 people. A total of 27 open-ended questions that were prepared in relation to the subject in the scope of the study were directed to the individuals who applied to sorcerers for various reasons. The qualitative data that were collected were subjected to Content Analysis, the findings obtained in this way were tabulated, and evaluations and interpretations were made. It was found as a result of the study that more than half of those who applied to sorcerers graduated from higher education institutions, were married, and received religious education from their families. On the other hand, it was also found that the majority of the participants used the drugs regularly when the doctor prescribed them in the case of medical discomfort; and admitted to the sorcerers for reasons such as illness, desperation, unemployment, and future anxiety. The majority of the participants did not fulfill religious worshipping regularly, and, depending on this, did not use religious coping methods against negative life events. Again, it was also found that only one of the participants of the study identified himself/herself as rational. Approximately half of the participants said that they directed their lives with spell and spell-like things, and they did not try to solve their problems in other ways before they go to sorcerers. Also, all of the participants said that sorcerers de-manded money from them, the majority of them said that they benefited from sorcerers, and they thought about going to them again.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 25 Eylül 2021
Dergi ismi: Kesit Akademi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kesitakademi/issue/65705/1019309
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2064429
