Makale Başlığı: The Possibility of Communal Destruction Based on Allāh's Justice and Sunnah
Özet: Allāh stresses that He will destroy the societies that insist on perpetrating misdeeds and engaging in lousy rhetoric to protect future generations, and He further notes that this is His Sunnah. Although some societies were destroyed as per this Sunnah during history, some thinkers argue that this law of Allāh changed after Prophet Muḥammad was sent. Therefore, it is emphasized that the method of destruction is hardly the same today, and that communal destruction will not be the case anymore. The present study addresses two major problems that this phenomenon causes. The first is related to the immutable law of Allāh as highlighted in the Qurʾān (i.e., the sunnatullāh), and the second is related to His justice, which is the principle underlying His relationship with human beings. Therefore, it is clear from the persistence of destruction that it is associated with sunnatullāh, and it is not possible for Allāh to treat societies differently. It is stressed that destruction’s being out of question today is due to the lack of conditions, rather than due to the abolition of Allāh’s law. This study also claims that communal destruction is still valid for all societies and that it does not evolve into an individual or any other form. Therefore, communal destruction will occur as soon as temporal and spatial conditions that Allāh set for it are met. However, it is concluded that Allāh’s punishing some societies by destroying and wiping them out, but not others, particularly His not destroying today’s societies, runs counter to with His justice.  This study concludes that there will be no destruction today, and it attributes the impossibility of destruction to the lack of right conditions established for destruction by Allāh, rather than to a change in His law.Every event or experience a believer faces in this world is meaningful from a theological perspective. The theological perspective of the person who encounters undesirable events is shaped based on expectation. Because the individual is aware that God is capable of leading him out of such bad situations. Therefore, the intervention by God Himself can always be considered as an inner factor for human beings. However, Allāh establishes certain principles in His relationship with human beings and acts in accordance with these principles under all circumstances. According to this conception, which is referred to as sunnatullāh, there is a strong emphasis that what Allāh has done so far and what He will do in the future will not change. In accordance with His sunnah, Allāh punished some societies in the past and wiped them off the face of the earth. Conceptualized as destruction, this operation occurred due to certain causes. It was actually intended for societies that did not give up mischievous acts (fasād), sedition and defeatism. While scholars commonly accept that Allāh's sunnah of destruction continued until Prophet Muḥammad, the issue of whether the destruction continued during the time of the Prophet and after him has remained an important area of discussion. While some scholars think that there is currently no destruction, others claim that it is not possible for it to disappear due to sunnatullāh and that its nature has changed; that is, it has turned into an individualized form.  However, because there are verses stating that sunnatullāh will not change, accepting the first view seems problematic. Similarly, it is clear that divine law changing from one society to another is also problematic in terms of Allāh’s justice.  This study discusses the issue of destruction based on the concepts of sunnah and justice. From the perspective of the Qurʾān, the concept of destruction could accurately be defined as "Allāh's completely destroying individuals and societies by inflicting a divine punishment for their misdeeds”. It is thought that some bad events that may happen to individuals are not considered as an instance of destruction. Based on the Qurʾān, it is concluded that God's treatment of societies, in line with what they do and how they live, has always remained the same in all periods of history.  In other words, it is concluded that the laws intended for earlier societies are also valid for today's societies and that destruction is possible in modern times if the conditions are the same with those in the societies that Allāh destroyed in the past. Scholars conclude that it is not likely for modern societies to get destroyed, and they list several reasons for this. The absence of a prophet, in particular, plays a key role in this. Since no prophets will be sent to the world again, there will be no communal destruction until the Day of Judgment.  However, the necessity of protecting believers from destruction and the fact that people have the right to repent and seek forgiveness at any point during their lives are other important reasons why destruction does not occur today.
Yazar isimleri: ['Seyithan CAN']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Mesned İlahiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mesned/issue/70518/1080563
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2280838
