Makale Başlığı: Obstacles And Preferences Of Sports Sciences Faculty Students Regarding The Use Of Recreation Area
Özet: The use of recreation areas varies according to general characteristics and demands of the users. In this respect, it is necessary to determine the demands of the users and the usage barriers both in the construction of new recreation areas and in the arrangement and renewal of existing areas. For this reason, the aim of this research is to reveal the participation barriers and preference factors related to the use of recreation area by the students of the Faculty of Sports Sciences. Screening model was used in the research. Appropriate sampling method was used in sample selection. The study group of the research consists of 622 volunteer students, 60% (n=373) male and 40% (n=249) female, studying at the Faculty of Sports Sciences in the 2021-2022 academic year. In the research, the "Recreation Area Participation Barriers Scale" (RAKE) and the "Recreation Area Preference Factors Scale" (RATE), which is a 5-point likert structure consisting of two parts, developed by Gümüş and Özgül (2017). The obtained data were analyzed using arithmetic mean, standard deviation, percentage, t test and ANOVA test. According to the findings obtained by analyzing the data, a statistically significant difference was found in the scale mean scores of the participants according to the variables of gender, weekly regular sports and department. (p<0.05). As a result, the preferences of the students to participate in recreational activities are the factors caused by the sportive diversity, physical facilities and personnel, and the barriers to participation are; It has been determined that there are time constraints, security barriers and sports field barriers.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mevlüt GÖNEN', 'Mehmet Ali CEYHAN', 'Zekai ÇAKIR', 'Erdal ZORBA', 'Osman Satı COŞKUNTÜRK']
Yayın Yılı: 16 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: The Online Journal of Recreation and Sports
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tojras/issue/72690/1182149
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2679698
