Makale Başlığı: Mâlikî Scholar Ibn Farḥūn’s Life, Works and Certain Evaluations on His Understanding of Fiqh
Özet: Ibn Farḥūn, one of the leading scholars of the Maliki school, was born in Medina in the 14th century and lived in the same city throughout his life. He fought against the Shiite-Imamate understanding which was in a politically and religiously dominant position in the city at the time. He also engaged in educational and judiciary activities, and left valuable works behind him. Despite this, very few academic studies have been made about him in Turkey and these studies have not included his works and understanding of fiqh in detail. The aim of this study is to determine the main characteristics of Ibn Farḥūn’s understanding of fiqh based on his works and to reveal his contributions to the Islamic fiqh. The importance of this article whose subject covers Ibn Farḥūn’s life, works and certain evaluations on his understanding of fiqh, is due to his role in strengthening the weakened school in Medina, which is the starting point of the Maliki school, as a scholar with ijtihad competence within the school, and the lasting effects he left in the field of fiqh. Because, among his works, Tabṣirat al-ḥukkām fī uṣūl al-aqḍiya wa manāhij al-aḥkām, which is related to the law of procedures, set an example for the works on the politics of sharia written in a later period, with its content and systematics.According to the method followed in this article and in order to achieve the mentioned objective, we have first determined Ibn Farḥūn’s life and his works by referring to biographical dictionaries (books of ṭabaqāt). In the part where his understanding of fiqh is examined, the focus was made to the author’s own works to reach a conclusion. In addition, references were made to recent studies conducted in Turkey and abroad on the reviewed topics. His understanding of evidence was mentioned first, in order to reflect the author’s understanding of fiqh within the integrity of the methodology of Islamic jurisprudence (uṣūl) and substantial law (furūʾ). To determine the furūʾ side, we analyzed the method he followed in Tabṣirat al-ḥukkām. We have tried to explain his understanding of fiqh and his place in the history of Islamic law through this work which provides clearer data on his understanding of fiqh compared to his other works. In addition to the evidences that are considered valid by other prominent scholars in the Maliki school, Ibn Farḥūn accepted the the murāʿāt al-khilāf which constitutes the weakest one among the other evidences. He also valued the evidence of istiḥsān in the first place, not for its evidentiary value but its prevalence of use, and scholarly argued against those who are against the evidence of istiḥsān. After evaluations regarding his methodological views, we examined his views on substantial law based on his work entitled Tabṣirat al-ḥukkām.  According to our findings, it has been observed that the author made preferences among different views, examined and discussed the views he conveyed from other scholars of the school, supported his own views by presenting the views of the authorities of the Maliki school. He even criticized the prominent figures of the Maliki school while examining the views and opinions of the scholars from the other schools.In line with the information given in this article, Ibn Farḥūn proved himself to be an authority figure in Maliki school, with his works and his contributions to the strengthening of the Maliki school in Medina. In fact, his book titled Tabṣirat al-ḥukkām reveals that he was not a muqallid (imitator), but an independent scholar who could analyze and criticize the issues, make choices among the rulings, and was knowledgeable about the views of other schools. In addition, this work, which we took as a basis to determine his views on furūʿ al-fiqh, is the first one of its kind in the Maliki school in terms of its form and content -as far as we can find out. Moreover, this book also pioneered the works on law of procedures that were written after it. The fact that such works were written as part of the Hanafi school literature in the following periods also reveals the extent of the author’s influence. All these can be considered as evidences showing that he was an original scholar who contributed to the science of fiqh in the history of Islamic law.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hasan Rami KARA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: İslam Hukuku Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ihad/issue/70666/1087177
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2307091
