Makale Başlığı: A Study On The Violent Posts Made To The Congratulatory Messages Of Political Actors In International Achievements: Example Of Tokyo 2020
Özet: The need to socialization and communicate has led people to a continuous search, encouraging them to search for new communication channels. Today, with the invention of the internet, communication has gained a very different dimension by becoming digital. The development of social networks along with the Internet has given us the opportunity to instantly reach and communicate anywhere in the world. Violence has also been meddle in politics science set up to govern people and the state. Today, political actors, who use social networks intensively, carry out political communication activities and realize their ideas and opinions. Violence, which has existed in human life for years, has entered into the free and anonymous structure of social media by being digitalized just like communication. With the freedom of social medias give , people who think differently from the opinions of political actors can be more aggressive towards other ideas and thoughts while defending their ideas. In this study, it is aimed to examine the online reflections of hate speech against political people on Twitter. By looking at the examples of digital violence that took place in political communication activities, the continuity and depersonalization of the perpetrators of violence were examined. Discourse analysis method was used in the study. According to the result obtained in the research, it has been determined that most of the accounts containing hate speech are anonymous accounts, and as a result of the examination of these accounts, they constantly make heavy violent statements against a certain political thought.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nedret ÇAĞLAR', 'Muhammed AYBER']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İletişim ve Toplum Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jcss/issue/72807/1152234
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2569328
