Makale Başlığı: Mi‘rajiyya of Uşşâkî
Özet: The religious texts that give information about Prophet Muhammad’s life or a part of his life are an indication of the degree and continuity of the interest in him, both in quality and in quantity. The content of these texts is constructed by many topics, from Prophet Muhammad's physical features and moral character to his relations with people, from his daily life to the details of his behaviors in it. In Islamic literature, it is seen that his prophethood and his experiences and transmissions with prophethood occupy a large place in almost every religious text, whether it is independent or not. As for Turkish literature, whether it is written for artistic or instructive purposes, a rich literature has been formed about Muhammad, such as “siyar”, “mawlid”, “naat”, “forty hadith”, “hilye”, “mucizat”, “gazavatname”. “The mi‘raj of Prophet Muhammad” has also been among the themes that most attracted the attention of Muslims since the time it has been. “The Miraj” is one of the issues that have been studied and discussed in the Islamic history in all details, from its nature to its consequences. Especially the “ruyet” and “tekellüm”, Muhammad's arrival from the Prophet's Mosque to the Masjid-i Aqsa in the blink of an eye, his journey through the layers of the heavens, his conversation with the prophets of the past, “the sidre-i munteha”, the descriptions of heaven and hell, on the “miraj”, the content of which is the most discussed are among the issues. Poets and authors also used some of the extraordinary elements of “miraj” in their works as aesthetic material and wrote “mi‘rajiyyas/mi‘raj-nâmes” describing the “miraj”. “The miraj” was sometimes written independently and sometimes as a part of another type of work such as “siyar”, “mawlid” and “hilye”. Usually, this first group, which is independent, is called "mi‘raj-nâme" and the second is called "mi‘rajiyya". “Mi‘rajiyyas/mi‘raj-nâmes” are the expression of a religious issue that takes its source from “the Qur’an” and “the hadiths”, generally in the form of poetry. In this context, poetry appears as an effective art in the transmission of a case as well as in the training of religious thought. “The mi‘rajiyya” that examined in this study is a poem of 132 couplets included in Uşşaki’s (XV. century) mystical masnavi “Yenbû‘-ı Hikmet”. In this article, in which “the mi‘rajiyya” dated 855 (1451-1452) is analyzed, first of all, “the miraj” as a case and “mi‘rajiyya” as a literary genre are mentioned, and then the characteristics of the text are examined. In this context, many concepts and motifs in the work, such as “burak”, “refref”, “imamate”, heavens and prophets, “sidre”, The Angel Gabriel's inability to go beyond “sidre”, The Angels Mikhail and Israfil, the offer of milk and wine to Muhammad, tuba tree, rivers coming out of the root of “sidre”, the obligatory prayer and the good news of forgiveness of a crowd from the ummah, have been examined in detail. On the other hand, according to Quranic ayahs and hadiths of The Prophet, which are the main sources of “mi‘rajiyyes”, how the event took place and to what extent it was discussed in the sources were emphasized in a comparative way. This poem, which can be shown among the oldest examples of “mi‘rajiyya” in Turkish-Islamic literature, draws attention to especially with its eloquent focussing on the elements of the celestial and its mystical context. Therefore, it is aimed to deal with the “miraj” thought of the author of this text and the period to which it belongs, and to determine its place in the mi‘rajiyya tradition. The connections established between the progress of the celestial bodies in the universe such as the seven heavens, the zodiac signs, “arş” and “kürsi” and the celestial journey of Prophet Muhammad are the parts where Uşşâkî tries to give a literary-aesthetic identity to the text. On the other hand, the work draws attention with its mystical context. Because the influence of sufism, especially on Turkish-Islamic poets, is inevitable. Uşşâkî also interpreted “tayy-i zaman” and “tayy-i mekan”, which are among the mystic terms, in connection with “isra” and “miraj”. Therefore, considering the relevant text with such characteristics can be accepted as a step in highlighting the religious thought and perception of “miraj” of the period it belongs to and determining its place in the “mi‘rajiyye” tradition. With this study, it will be possible to evaluate Uşşâkî’s attitude towards the “miraj” and the understanding of his attributes to the events during the mi‘raj and the discussions that developed with the “mi‘raj” texts before him.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kübra YILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kocatepe İslami İlimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kiid/issue/73811/1146748
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2550265
