Makale Başlığı: Glutaminyl Cyclase and Its Inhibitors
Özet: Human  glutaminyl  cyclase  (hQC),  which  has  two  isoforms,  is  an  important  enzyme  that catalyzes  pyroglutamate  modification.  N-Terminal  pyroglutamate  (pE)  modification  is  an important post-translational  event  in  mammals.  The  pE  modification catalyzed by QC is a necessary  modification  for  the  maturation  and  function  of  many  proteins  and  peptides. However, studies have shown that the increase in the amount of QC is associated with some diseases. With the abnormal increase in the secretion of QC, Alzheimer's (AD), Huntington's disease  (HD),  melanomas,  thyroidcarcinomas,  rapid  formation  of  atherosclerosis,  septic arthritis occur. With this abnormal increase, the increase in pE-amyloid beta (Aβ) and pE-chemokine ligand (CCL2) formation resulting from pE modification catalyzed by QC may cause various pathologies. Considering the consequences of abnormal secretion of QC and predisposing  to  the  formation  of  diseases,  it  was  aimed  to  reduce  the  formation  of  pE-modified mediators by inhibiting QC. The discovery of new drugs to inhibit QC is considered an important approach for the prevention and treatment of many physiological problems and diseases,   including   AD,   inflammation,   cancer.   Therefore,   it   was   thought   that   these pathological conditions could be prevented by QC inhibition, and various QC inhibitors were developed to combat it. In this review, various QC inhibitors, and their molecular structures, activities  and  also  possible  treatment  options  were  examined.  Extensive  research  has  been done on varoglutamstat, which is in phase 2 of clinical trials, and QC inhibitors in general are summarized.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 15 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Innovative Research and Reviews
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/injirr/issue/71377/1147863
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2554020
