Makale Başlığı: Developing a Translation Competence Scale (TCS) and Evaluating the Opinions of Prospective Translators and Professional Translators in Turkey regarding Translation Competence
Özet: Upon examining studies on translation competence in the field of translation studies, it is observed that although there are numerous studies in the literature as to the definition of translation competence, what the concept consists of, and evaluation of its acquisition process, much of the research up to now has been descriptive. Previous studies were not carried out to create a translation competence scale. The leading translation competence models addressed in the literature can be classified as individual competence models based on observation and experience, translation competence models based on data obtained through research projects and longitudinal empirical research, and translation competence models based on the industry. However, in our study, we created scale items and components based on the translation competence models mentioned earlier, paving the way to develop a translation competence scale. Through this new translation competence scale, we also evaluated prospective translators and professional translators in Turkey. The main aim of this study is to develop a translation competence scale and examine the opinions of prospective translators and professional translators on translation competence. The research was carried out via a survey model and it was found that the model has significant, good and acceptable values when comparing the fit indices with the data obtained from the results of the confirmatory factor analysis of the translation competence scale (TCS) (χ2 =461,554; sd=186; p=,000; χ2/sd = 2,481; SRMR = ,0488; RMSEA = ,061; CFI = ,918; TLI = ,908; GFI =,904; AGFI = ,880). It was also concluded that the scale is valid and reliable (with three-dimensional and 21-items). There is also a significant difference regarding the translation competence in favor of the male participants, and the effect is medium and positive. The mean scores of the participants regarding translation competence who are 46 years old and above are higher than those who are 25 years old and below. There is a significant difference for those who have lived in a country where a foreign language is spoken for more than three months, and the effect is -medium and positive, in line with the correlation values. There is a low and negative significant relationship with living in a country, while the translation competence of the participants is low and positive with sex and age. Considering these results, the following recommendations have been made: The experience factor plays a vital role in acquiring translation competence. As the level of world knowledge, subject knowledge, field of expert knowledge and exposure to working languages in translation increase with age, the acquisition of translation competence also develops in parallel. Accordingly, prospective and professional translators should be engaged in activities to increase their translation experience.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatma ÜNAL', 'Fadime ÇOBAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Çeviribilim ve Uygulamaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ceviri/issue/71589/1118561
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2436012
