Makale Başlığı: ELEMENTS OF THE TEXT INTERPRETATION PROCESS: MAIN IDEA, SUPPORTING IDEA, TOPIC
Özet: This study aims to describe the views of pre-service Turkish teachers on the concepts of the topic, main idea, and supporting idea, which are the elements of the text interpretation process, and their effects on the reading process. Convenience sampling, one of the purposeful sampling methods, was used to determine the research study group. The study was carried out with the case study design, one of the qualitative research methods. The study group of the research consists of 43 pre-service teachers studying at the department of Turkish Language Teaching in the Faculty of Education at Recep Tayyip Erdoğan University. A semi-structured interview form was used to obtain the research data. The data were evaluated by the content analysis method and presented in graphics. As a result of the research, it was determined that teachers have an active role in the learning process to determine the main idea, and secondary school is the most critical stage in acquiring this skill. It has been determined that pre-service teachers have difficulties distinguishing the main idea and topic concepts, and they mostly use the strategy of automatically determining after reading the text while determining these two elements. On the other hand, pre-service teachers believe that they are more competent in determining the supporting ideas despite the main idea of the text. In addition, it has been seen that they mostly use the strategy of determining the supporting ideas of the text based on the main idea of the text. The pre-service teachers, who had the most difficulty in determining the main idea in the genre of poetry, stated that their ability to determine the topic, main idea, and supporting ideas of the text affected their reading comprehension skills, as well as their reading motivation, reading attitude and reading anxiety, which are affective variables of the reading process.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yasemin BAKİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Asya Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asya/issue/72908/1151905
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2568386
