Makale Başlığı: Effects of Adding Laurel (Laurus nobilis) Essential Oil to the Diet of Tilapia Fish on Growth and Intestinal Histology
Özet: The effects of adding laurel oil to the experimental diet on growth performance, biochemical com-positions of fish and feeds, sand liver and intestine histology in Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) juveniles were evaluated. 180 fish (12±0.02 g) were used in the study. They were randomly placed in 12 tanks with a volume of 500 liters, with 15 fish per tank. The commercial laurel oil was added to the diets at 0, 0.3, 0.6, and 1.2%. The fish were fed with experimental diets twice a day as apparent satiation for 60 days. In the current study, weight gain (WG), feed conversion ratio (FCR), specific growth rate (SGR) and survival rates (SR) were statistically similar (p>0.05). While no difference was observed  between  protein  and  ash  values  in  the  biochemical  analysis  of  fish,  lipid  values  were  found to be lower in the 0.3% and 0.6 supplemented groups compared to the control and 1.2% supplemented groups. In addition, there was no statistical difference in protein, lipid, and ash val-ues in the biochemical composition of the feeds. In the study, essential oil components of Laurus nobilis  oil  such  as  Linalool,  Elemene,  Trans-Caryophyllene,  Cis-α-Bisabolene, Α-Terpinyl  Acetate,  Methyleugenol, β-Eudesmol were determined in low levels. The addition of 0.3% laurel oil to the diet did not cause histopathological findings, and it was found to improve liver and intestinal tis-sues. In conclusion, it is suggested that 0.3% laurel oil addition can be used as a feed additive in tilapia  culture,  especially  considering  the  data  obtained  from  growth  and  histological  analyzes.  Further studies are deserved need to examine the effects of laurel oil on immunity and resistance to various stress factors in other fish.
Yazar isimleri: ['Metin YAZICI', 'Yavuz MAZLUM', 'Mehmet NAZ', 'Çiğdem ÜRKÜ', 'Musa TÜRKMEN', 'Tülay AKAYLI']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Aquatic Sciences and Engineering
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ase/issue/72502/1101489
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2366298
