Makale Başlığı: Preparation for the profession from the perspective of primary education teachers
Özet: Changing societal demands and new disciplines place considerable pressure on teachers. The teacher must be able to absorb these innovations and transform them into a form that can be communicated to their pupils. For this, teachers need to be properly trained in undergraduate education, equipped with the necessary professional competences. The article is conceived as a qualitative study whereby on the basis of semi-structured interviews, the aim is to find out how primary school teachers assess their undergraduate training after five years' practice. The research results show that the undergraduate training can identify the strengths and weaknesses. Training in the subject field is perceived positively. Teachers have a positive attitude towards training for the preparation and implementation of lessons. The ability to organize and manage the educational process in the classroom is equally positive. The ability to obtain feedback and work with it is one of the other benefits in undergraduate training, this benefits pupils, as well as benefitting themselves. The ability to use diagnostics and intervention is on the borderline between positive and negative perception of training. Here, teachers appreciate the knowledge component positively, but lack more practical examples and cases in order to acquire more knowledge and apply it in practice. Inadequate training in the field of psychology, i.e. practical use of psychological knowledge, is generally perceived as the negative. Criticism is also directed at disciplinary didactics, which are too theoretical for teachers. However, as a whole, the undergraduate training system is assessed more positively.
Yazar isimleri: ['Martin SKUTİL']
Yayın Yılı: 10 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Van Yüzüncü Yıl Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yyuefd/issue/73718/1134812
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2503363
