Makale Başlığı: Detecting Chocolate Positions by Image Processing and Collecting with Industrial Robot
Özet: With Industry 4.0, the importance of mechanization in production has increased. After that, when the pandemic period came, mechanization became inevitable. The importance of robots has increased when it comes to minimizing human power on the production line. Robots take on tasks that require physical performance on the production line, while humans control production. Although the initial investment cost of the lines in this way is quite high, the production cost per piece is low. The investment cost of a production line that reduces the cost of production per piece pays off in a short time. In this study,; according to the image taken from the camera placed on the conveyor where the chocolates are ready to be packed, the location of the chocolates on the conveyor has been determined and all the locations received have been sent to PLC. The PLC sent the locations to the robot via the HMI panel. According to the formula obtained by the robot linear regression method, it converted the location information into its own coordinate system and determined the position of the products. The chocolates, the location of which was determined, were taken from the conveyor and left in the corresponding cell of the mold. With this system, a production line that can work 24 hours a day has been established. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic worldwide, many companies have been forced to Decelerate their production due to lack of manpower. During this period, many of the production lines equipped with mechanized and robots continued to be produced. The cost of investment is recovered much faster during such periods.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ali Osman BİLER', 'Bahadir AKBAL']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Mühendislik Araştırma ve Geliştirme Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/umagd/issue/71387/1133285
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2496957
