Makale Başlığı: Computer-Based Learning and Training in Logistics Management  Department
Özet: Nowadays, resilient companies that grow and develop with globalization and can position themselves against the risks that arise in the markets have begun to attach more importance to logistics activities than to previous periods in order to get a larger share from international markets. The ability of companies to gain competitive advantage through effective and efficient practices in logistics activities depends on increasing the workforce quality and contribution of employees. Accordingly, there has been an increase in the number of universities providing logistics education, as well as the search for personnel with qualified knowledge and skills in the field of logistics. In order to provide better quality education, the use of computers in logistics education has increased rapidly in the last 10 years, especially thanks to the software developed. As part of this trend, logistics educators have added an increasing number of computer-based logistics courses to their training curricula to meet the knowledge, competence, and equipment required in their workforce. However, the development of educational curricula and educational infrastructures evolves much more slowly than the development of the logistics sector. Especially in the last 10 years, when the curricula of the world's leading logistics education institutions are examined, it is seen that there are many courses that include gamification, simulation, and current logistics package programs. The fact that the sector is too dynamic reduces the popularity of theoretical trainings and leads to an increase in the demand for practical trainings. In this context, the collected data of Afyon Kocatepe University Bolvadin Faculty of Applied Sciences Logistics Management department students' perspectives on applied education are analyzed with SPSS by means of a questionnaire. The study aims to contribute to logistics education by revealing the perspectives of logistics management students on applied education.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatih BIYIKLI', 'Tuğrul BAYAT']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Politics Economy and Management
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jopem/issue/70865/1125517
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2464459
