Makale Başlığı: The art of composition and examples from Mer‘î b. Yusuf al-Kermî’s Bedi‘a’l-insha
Özet: As a term, Composition refers to the subtleties of making official or private correspondence according to a certain method, which means "writing, the art of writing and composition", and the art of writing letters. In addition to this meaning, all kinds of words or prose that are uttered or written according to eloquence and fluency, adhere to certain rules, and include literary beauty are also expressed with the term composition. The discipline that deals with this art is called ‘ilma’l-insha, and the works created by bringing together official and private letters and correspondence written in accordance with the rules of this discipline are called münşeat journals. One of the most important purposes of writing these works, which are extremely important in terms of literature and rhetoric, is to teach the clerks, who play very important roles in the state hierarchy, the rules and procedures of correspondence and to transmit this information to future generations. Many works were written about the art of composition in the period from the Umayyad period to the Ottoman Empire period. One of them is the work of Ottoman era scholar Mer'î b Yûsuf al-Kermî (d. 1033/1624), named Bedi'a'l-insha' ve's-sifat fi'l-muqatabat wa'l-muraselat.In this work, which consists of fourteen chapters, there are rules to be followed in official and private writings to be written to various persons or authorities, adjectives, nicknames and address words, points to be considered when writing letters and representative writing examples for various purposes. In the first part of this study, the meaning of composition as a science discipline, its place in Arabic literature since its emergence, its position and historical development are emphasized. In the second part, art and life of Mer'i b. Yusuf al-Kermi are investigated. In the third part, in the art of composition; In order to reveal the relations and communication of people in the society, the hierarchy, the rules to be followed in correspondence and the selected and artistic expressions in such works, examples of selected verse and prose texts from the work in question are given. In this work, which is briefly called İnshâ-i Mer'i; There is important information about cultural richness such as the unique terminology of correspondence and the literary language and style based on them, the rules observed in correspondence, human relations and communications in the society, the hierarchical relationship levels of the state and social life.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1190344
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2713423
