Makale Başlığı: Phenolization vs SILaC Laser: Which is More Successful in the Treatment of Pilonidal Sinus Disease?
Özet: Objective: In this study we aimed to compare phenol application and sinus laser-assisted closure (SiLaC) methods for the treatment of pilonidal sinus disease (PSD). Materials and Methods: A total of 141 patients were divided into two groups with 73 patients being in the phenol group and 68 patients in the laser group. Patients’ demographic characteristics,  smoking status, presence of co-morbidities, history of abscess drainage, previous PSD surgery, recurrence status, need for re-operation, postoperative complications, distance of orifice from the midline and number of sinus tract were retrospectively recorded and compared between the groups. Results: No statistically significant difference was observed between the two groups in terms of demographic features and disease free survival (DFS). DFS was statistically significantly shorter in the patients with previous pilonidal sinus surgery, in smoker patients and in the patients with complications. Recurrence rate was similar between both groups. Previous pilonidal sinus surgery, smoking and complications are the factors affecting disease free survival. Number of sinus tracts and distance of the orifice to the midline are the factors affecting recurrence. According to the ROC curve analysis, a cut-off value for orifice distance >1.4 cm predicted the development of recurrence sensitivity 100%, specificity 92.91%. Conclusion: The results of this study indicate that recurrence and success rates are similar between the relatively newer SILaC method and phenolization technique. Rate of complications is also similar. Both treatment methods can be safely and effectively used for the treatment of PSD.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa Yener UZUNOĞLU', 'Ömer YALKIN']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Sakarya Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/smj/issue/72629/1101780
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2367459
