Makale Başlığı: Effect of Spironolactone on Glycogen and Oxidative Stress Parameters in Prefrontal Cortex and Eye Tissues in Rats in Which Surgical Menopause and Chronic Cerebral Hypoperfusion Performed
Özet: Aim: Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion (CCH) leads to vascular dementia with progressive hippocampal damage and cognitive impairments.CCH also causes a decrease in blood flow in the retina.The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of spironolactone on oxidativestress and glycogen levels in the eye and prefrontal cortex (PFC) tissues in ovariectomized rats with CCH.Material and Methods: 32 female Wistar Albino rats were randomly divided into 4 groups, 8 in each group: 1)Control, 2)KSH, 3)KSH+Spironolactone 25mg/kg 4)KSH+Spironolactone 50mg/kg. The rats underwent bilateral ovariectomy (OVX) at the start of theexperiment, a CCH model was created with permanent occlusion of the common carotid arteries (2VO) 5 weeks after OVX. Spironolactonewas administered by oral gavage three days before 2VO and once daily for 3 weeks after 2VO. At the end of the experiment, tissue glycogen,reduced glutathione (GSH), malondialdehyde (MDA) and ascorbic acid (AA) levels were measured. Statistical analysis was performed usingANOVA and Bonferroni tests.Results: CCH caused an increase in oxidative stress markers and a decrease in glycogen level in PFC. Similarly, CCH caused a decreasein both glycogen and AA levels in the eye tissue. In the group treated with 25mg/kg spironolactone, the AA and PFC glycogen levels of theeyes decreased, while the MDA levels in the PFC were increased compared to the CCH group(p<0.05). In the group administered 50mg/kgspironolactone, PFC glycogen levels and eye glycogen levels were significantly increased compared to the CCH group(p<0.05).Conclusion: Our results show that spironolactone administration can be effective in reducing retinal and cerebral damage caused by CCHby reducing oxidative stress and increasing glycogen levels in PFC and eye tissues in ovariectomized rats with CCH
Yazar isimleri: ['Meryem ERGENÇ', 'Hale SAYAN ÖZAÇMAK', 'İnci TURAN', 'Veysel Haktan ÖZAÇMAK']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Batı Karadeniz Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mjwbs/issue/72438/1089000
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2314460
