Makale Başlığı: Opinions of Students in Social Sciences High Schools About Musıc Lessons: The Example of The Province of Bursa
Özet: High Schools of Social Sciences are institutions which do not intend to provide resources for the Education of students as scientists in the fields of literature and Social sciences. Social Sciences High Schools providing education at the secondary level in Turkey are included in the grouping named “Educational İnstitutions İmplementing Special Programs and Projects (Project Schools)”. İn this study, it is aimed to determine the opinions of the students towards music who study in these schools that accept students with an exam and apply special programs. İn this study limited to the province of Bursa, a case study model, one of the qualitative research methods, was used. The study group of the research was formed with a total of 26 students, including 16 students from İnegöl Halil İnalcık High School of Social Sciences and 8 students from BTSO Ali Osman Sönmez High School of Social Sciences. The data were obtained by using a semi-structured interview form. The data obtained from the research were analysed by the consent analysis method. According to the results of research, it was concluded that they were talented in the field of listening and related to the subjects in the music lesson. İn addition to that, many participants mentioned the importance of the music class, as well as the meagre class duration. Among the expectations of the participants from the music lesson, learning to play an instrument is the first place. In the study, it was concluded that the students who chose the elective music course did not think about choosing music as a profession but wanted to continue as a hobby. In accordance with all these results, in addition to the recommendations made for the consent and processing of the music lesson, recommendations towards researchers were also made.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nur Didem TAŞKIRAN', 'Ajda ŞENOL SAKİN']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Batı Anadolu Eğitim Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/baebd/issue/70550/1088064
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2310484
