Makale Başlığı: The effect of transformational leadership on organizational trust: A study in aviation industry
Özet: This research focuses on the concept of organizational trust, which stands out in the activities of employees in different business lines of airline companies at airports in Turkey and directly affects expectations such as organizational communication, organizational efficiency, performance, and organizational commitment. In this context, the concept of trust is seen as the belief and expectation of the employee in the promises and actions of the organization. In the research, the relationship between the concept of trust and the transformational leadership skills expected from the responsible managers of the employees, who are effective in the complete and safe execution of the operations at the airports despite the pressure of time and workload, has been taken as the subject. The aim of the study was determined as the effect of transformational leadership on organizational trust. The field of this research consists of employees of 3 different private airline companies, operating at Ankara Esenboğa Airport. In this study, to measure transformational leadership, the method of “Transformational Leadership Scale” developed by Carless et al. was used which had carried out to investigate the effect of transformational leadership behavior on organizational trust [1]. Additionally, to measure organizational trust, the “Organizational Trust Scale” developed by Tokgöz and Seymen by making use of different scale factors with hospital staff, was used [2]. In the study, in which 270 survey data were evaluated, a positive and statistically significant relationship was found between transformational leadership and organizational trust (r=0.642, p<0.05). In addition, it was determined that transformational leadership behaviour affects employees' perception of organizational trust by 52.3% (R2=0.523). As in all sectors, the trust of employees in their organizations in the aviation sector can seriously affect their performance. When confidence decreases, their performance and motivation decrease, and when it increases, they perform better. In this direction, it is recommended that leaders in organizations be informed about transformational leadership behaviours and receive various trainings in this direction. Thus, leaders will be able to create a positive effect on the overall efficiency and performance of the organization by improving the organizational trust perception of the employees.
Yazar isimleri: ['Alper Bahadır DALMIŞ', 'Cengiz Mesut BÜKEÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Aeronautics and Astronautics
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijaa/issue/72354/1148483
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2556282
