Makale Başlığı: The Evaluation of Mugla Beekeeping Potential In Terms of Apitourism
Özet: Purpose: Today, the concept of tourism is diverse. Rural tourism is included in this diversity. Among the preferences of domestic and foreign tourists who change to destinations, there are places where healthier, nature- intertwined and natural products can be consumed. In this context, it is seen that the tendency towards rural areas is increasing day by day. Rural tourism, which is described as alternative tourism in the changing world, is the locomotive of rural development. At the same time, rural tourism is considered as a new approach in the development of rural areas. Rural tourism includes different types of tourism. Apitourism, which is included in this context, makes its importance in rural tourism increasingly felt every day. At this stage, countries that can utilize the apitourism potential will be advantageous in terms of rural tourism. the presence of the sleeve with Turkey, with the production of bees and bee products beekeeping is an important position in the world economy. With this feature, it has an important potential in terms of applicability of apitourism. Muğla bees and bee products in terms of production is located in Turkey ranks first in beekeeping. In this context, Mugla province is the case with one of the centers may apitourism properties in Turkey. The aim of this study is to evaluate the beekeeping potential of Muğla province in terms of apiturism with various criteria and to reveal the studies that can be done for the development and sustainability of apitourism in Muğla province. In the study discussed, it was concluded that the preparation of an action plan for the evaluation of beekeeping potential in Muğla province in terms of apitourism could be an important roadmap. In addition, from this point of view, it is thought that the beekeeping potential of Muğla province will create an important added value in the development of apitourism and rural development.Design/Methodology/Approach: In this study, beekeeping potential of Muğla province was evaluated conceptually in terms of apitourism by using secondary data.Findings: It has been revealed that rural tourism is an important component in rural development and apitourism is an important component in terms of rural tourism. It has been determined that apitourism can be applied and evaluated in terms of the existing potential of Muğla, where beekeeping is intensely carried out.Originality/Value: This study is important in terms of showing that the evaluation of apitourism potential in Muğla province should not be ignored in terms of rural tourism and rural development.
Yazar isimleri: ['Figen ÇUKUR', 'Tayfun ÇUKUR']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Tarım Ekonomisi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tarekoder/issue/67986/882927
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1587262
