Makale Başlığı: Examination of Pre-service Teachers' Cognitive Structures for the Concept of " Specific Learning Disability"
Özet: The aim of this research is to determine the cognitive structures of teacher candidates regarding the concept of Specific Learning Disability (SLD). For this purpose, the word association test was used as a data collection tool in the study, which was carried out using the scanning model. The data of the study were collected from 117 teacher candidates studying at a state university. Frequency values were calculated by listing the obtained data. The data obtained were grouped by considering the semantic relationships between the words associated with the key concept. Appropriate category names were made for the groups and frequency values and findings were tabulated. The findings of the research were gathered under 13 categories in total. These categories are SLD Types, Educational Needs, Cognitive Development, Identification/Placement, SLD Definition, Sensory-Behavioral Problems, Social Perspective, Social-Emotional Development, SLD Diagnostic Model, SLD Causes, Educational Problems, Language Development, Popular Culture. In addition, the words with the highest frequency value among the words stated by the pre-service teachers are dyslexia, dysgraphia, dyscalculia, normal intelligence and special education. According to these results, it can be said that pre-service teachers make valid associations with the concept of SLD. As a result, it was seen that the word association test revealed the cognitive structures of pre-service teachers and was an effective technique in identifying misconceptions. The results of the research were discussed in relation to the literature and suggestions for the future were included.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet İNCE', 'Şule FIRAT DURDUKOCA']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/turkegitimdergisi/issue/70719/1070903
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2243530
