Makale Başlığı: NEW IMMUNOHİSTOCHEMİCAL METHODS IN THE DİFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSİS OF HEPATOCELLULAR CARCİNOMA, CHOLANGIOCELLULAR CARCİNOMA, AND COLON ADENOCARCINOMA METASTASES
Özet: Objectives: Liver is the main organ carrying out metabolic functions in the human body.  The cause of death from cancer is the third among cancers in the world.  Metastases are the most common malignant tumors in liver. Hepatocellular carcinoma, primary malignant tumors of the liver, is the second (80-90 %), and cholangiocellular carcinoma is the third (10-15 %) most common malignant tumor of liver. Early diagnosis in these tumors is important for early treatment planning. Although late-stage hepatocellular carcinoma is easily detectable, the treatment could not be avaliable in a large proportion and recurrence is frequently observed. Therefore, in the differential diagnosis using more sensitive and specific antibodies can increase the effectiveness of the other markers used in routine practice, and can achieve an earlier diagnosis. Methods: In our study, paraffin blocks of the biopsy and resection material of 60 cases were studied immunohistochemically with GPC-3, Agrin/CD34 combination, CDX2. Results: HepPar1, AFP, CEA, CD10, CK-19, CK-7, CK-20, CK-8 and CK-18 which are studied previously, were evaluated in combination with GPC-3 in hepatocellular carcinoma, and GPC-3 was found to be more sensitive and specific than HepPar1 and AFP. In the differential diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma from cholangiocellular carcinoma and metastatic adenocarcinoma of the colon, GPC-3 was also found to be very useful.  Although in hepatocellular carcinoma tissues Agrin was observed in the new areas of vascularity, it was not observed in the areas of cholangiocellular carcinoma and tissues of metastatic colon adenocarcinoma. That has been followed in our attention. CDX2 staining was observed in tissues with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the colon, but it is very little in hepatocellular carcinoma and cholangiocellular carcinoma. This is an important finding in the differential diagnosis. Conclusion:  Considered a combination of all of our findings, Glypican-3, Agrin/CD34 combination and CDX2 are very sensitive and specific markers of hepatocellular carcinoma. These markers must be applied in routine practice for early diagnosis and treatment, and for the extend of the survey in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Atatürk Üniversitesi Tıp Fakültesi Cerrahi Tıp Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jsmsau/issue/71468/1146479
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2549326
