Makale Başlığı: Reflections of Future Predictions on Furniture and Space Design in Science Fiction Movies: 2001: A Space Odyssey Movie
Özet: Up-to-date technological advancements allow us to see the representations, such as designs of the future. In recent years, one of the most well-known tools of this representation, the cinema, is oftenthe playground where the subjects of technology, people, space, and furniture themes come into fruition through the genre of science fiction. Science-fiction movies which belong in the sub-genre of the cinema, and the scenarios where the predictions of future come into play reach their audience through the applications of the advanced technology in different scales. In futuristic movie fictions, a new way of living is described through the motives of urban life, architectural envelopes, spaces, and furniture. The cinema comes up with assumptions about the future by making use of the data derived from many disciplines. The movie 2001: A Space Odyssey, a sci-fi film chosen as the framework for the research, is included in the study because it offers strong assumptions of the future regardless of its era with its city, architecture, space, and furniture concepts included in its scenario. In this context, this study aims to examine the semantic and the spatial impact of the places and the furniture that has been fictionalized in the movie. For this purpose, the relation of technology, space and furniture concepts have been investigated through the use of deduction methodology and two-stage. In the first stage, a detailed literature review was made, and the information was compiled and presented in the research. In the second stage, the observations of the movie were used. As a result, it’s been concluded that the movie had a rather progressive understanding of the time it was shot, considering all the depictions of futuristic places and spaces.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kübra ARSLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: bab Journal of FSMVU Faculty of Architecture and Design
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/babdergisi/issue/71297/1147338
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2552472
