Makale Başlığı: Credit Scoring on Cash Flow Table with Machine Learning: XGBoost Approach
Özet: Machine learning methods have started being used with greatermomentum in the banking and finance sectors alongside modernizationand globalization. The ability to distinguish between good and badcustomers has become extremely important, especially with the increase in credit products offered in the banking sector. This ability to distinguish not only increases banks’ profitability butalso increases their competitiveness in the market. In this context, banks put companies through a credit evaluationprocess before loaning to them, and the most important leg of this process is undoubtedly the credit score analysis.Considering that one of the most important risks banks carry is credit risk, the importance of correctly, reliably, andquickly completing the balanced scorecard study during the credit evaluation process cannot be denied. Whether thecompany undergoing a scorecard study is an independent company or part of a group of companies may changehow the company or firms are evaluated. In a group of companies, no matter how good a rating one company has inregard to its status within the parent company, if the other companies have low ratings, this may affect and reduce theconsolidated rating. In this context, the current study focuses on groups of companies. The aim of the study is to try todevelop a scorecard model using the cash flow statements of consolidated companies. In this study, eXtreme GradientBoosting (XGBoost), Gradient Boosting and Artificial Neural Network algorithms which are machine learning techniquesand Python program were used. These three methods were compared, and the extreme gradient boosting method wasshown to be the preferred model with an accuracy rating of 80%.
Yazar isimleri: ['Güner ALTAN', 'Server DEMİRCİ']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: İktisat Politikası Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iuipad/issue/71907/1114842
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2420359
