Makale Başlığı: New social movements and digital media
Özet: People in society interact and communicate with each other. As a result of this interaction and communication, certain actions take place, these actions form associations around a common thought. If the wishes of individuals do not find answers in society, conflicts occur and these conflicts enable social movements to emerge.Technological advances have been influential in many areas of us life.This effect also affected social movements and led to the emergence of new social movements.New social movements differ from old social movements in many ways.On the other hand, there is more than one reason for the emergence of new social movements. The most important of these are technological developments. However,transformations in the economic-political sphere and social transformations are largely effective. The merger of social movements with social media has introduced the concept of digital activism into our lives. Smartphones at our disposal at any time have made it very easy to participate in new social movements and digital activism. Thanks to this convenience, the currents that are effective all over the world are emerging and they affect public opinion. At this point, the study aimed to explain social movements, new social movements, differences between new social movements and old social movements, the interaction of new social movements with the media and digital activism. The study is important for explaining new social movements and digital activism that are a big popular today and affect many segments of society, from small to large. Instead of an empirical analysis, the subject of new social movements has been discussed by compiling existing studies.
Yazar isimleri: ['Adeviye UZUNOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: NOSYON: Uluslararası Toplum ve Kültür Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/nosyon/issue/71049/1102780
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2371477
