Makale Başlığı: Investigation of the Effects of Pre-Service Teachers' Socio-Economic Statuses and Personality Traits on Their Motivations
Özet: Although self-regulated learning (SRL) in education is more often associated with student learning, recently it has been emphasized that teachers should be self-regulated individuals, as well. In this study focusing on motivation, one of the sub-dimensions of SRL, predictive power of socio-economic statuses and personality traits of pre-service teachers on their motivations was determined with hierarchical regression analysis. This study was conducted with survey model, which is one of the quantitative research methods. The study enrolled 712 pre-service teachers studying at various departments of the Faculty of Education in a state university in Ankara, Türkiye. The Big Five Inventory, was used to determine the personality traits of pre-service teachers, while the Socio-economic Status Form was used to determine their socio-economic status. The General Self-Efficacy Scale, 2x2 Achievement Goal Orientations Scale, Success/Failure Attributions Scale, and Scientific Epistemological Beliefs Survey were used to determine the motivation of pre-service teachers. The results of hierarchical regression analysis, which was conducted with the data obtained in the study, showed low-level significant effects of socio-economic status on some sub-dimensions of motivation. However, when personality traits were included in the analysis, it was found out that they have higher level significant effects on all sub-dimensions of motivation. In particular, the findings showed that motivation had a significant effect on self-efficacy and goal orientation sub-dimensions. The findings of the study are likely to provide useful information about the effect of upbringing environments of pre-service teachers, which shape their personality traits and personalities, on their motivations.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gözde YÜCE', 'Funda EKİCİ', 'Hüseyin AKKUŞ', 'Basri ATASOY']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Participatory Educational Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/per/issue/72501/1118390
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2435347
