Makale Başlığı: A Study on Demonstration and Digital Disinformation in Social Media
Özet: With the developments in communication technologies, the circulation and transportation of information in the world has become easier. The spread of mass media and the introduction of social media into our lives have led to differentiation in our daily life practices. Social media, which destroys the boundaries of time and space, has also created problems such as disinformation, privacy and demonstration. Although the time and space limits are exceeded thanks to the internet and social networks, fake information and news are easily spread through social media. Our daily life has now been transferred to the digital environment. Everything produced in this environment that appeals to the eye and ear only gains meaning if it is viewed, and what is not displayed is deemed to be null and void. Our daily life has now been transferred to the digital environment. Everything produced in this environment that appeals to the eyes and ears only gains meaning when viewed by people. What is not displayed is considered null and void. The content produced in the digital environment does not enrich our mental world, but only appeals to our level of appreciation. Thus, quantity is more important than quality. Packaging is more important than content. The question of how has become more important than the question of what. In this study, it is explained how social life turns into theater stage in social media. In this study, it is explained which results of the dissemination of the content produced by individuals in social media, unlike traditional media, to the public. In this study, it is explained why social media users prioritize personal taste instead of questioning reality. In addition, the reasons for the popularity of content that feeds the culture of entertainment and pleasure rather than showing serious issues are explained. The problems of blinding, superficialization and decontextualization caused by social media have been examined. The results of the degeneration in social media are explained. In the study, the subjects of how false consciousness is loaded on people are discussed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Faruk AŞLAKCI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: INJOCMER International Journal of Communication and Media Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/injocmer/issue/70545/1140485
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2525058
