Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Financial Development on Economic Growth in Turkey: Cointegration Relationship
Özet: With the globalization process, studies on financial developments have started to gain importance. Especially its relationship with economic growth, which is one of the most important macroeconomic factors, has been the subject of various researches. While economic growth means an increase in real national income, the concept of financial development is one of the factors affecting this factor. The aim of this study is to examine the effect of financial development on economic growth in the Turkish economy with the data of 1980-2019 period. In the empirical part of the study, firstly, unit root tests were applied to the series. Augmented Dickey-Fuller (ADF) and Phillips Perrons (PP) unit root tests, which are frequently used in the literature, were used. As a result of ADF and PP unit root tests, it was seen that the series used in the model were stationary at the first difference level. The cointegration relationship between financial development and economic growth variables was examined with the Johansen cointegration test. As a result of the findings about the cointegration relationship between the variables, Fully Modified Ordinary Least Squares (FMOLS), Dynamic Least Squares (DOLS) and Canonical Co-integrated Regression (CCR) methods, which are long-term coefficient estimators, were used. These findings obtained indicate that 1% increase in financial development in the long term will increase economic growth; 0.65% according to FMOLS, 0.64% according to DOLS and 0.65% according to CCR. As a result of empirical analysis, it was found that financial development contributes to economic growth.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bahar OĞUL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Fenerbahçe Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/fbujoss/issue/70817/1092524
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2329181
