Makale Başlığı: Ecological Footprint Awareness of Sports Sciences Faculty Students
Özet: Studies on environmental problems have been carried out for many years. There is an increasing interest in these studies in particular after the recent developments in environment-related issues. Environment and sports are highly interrelated concepts. It should be taken into account that sports activities may cause some damage to the environment. The concept of the ecological footprint numerically expresses the harm caused to nature by the activities carried out by people in their vital processes. This study aims to determine the ecological footprint awareness of the students of the faculty of sports sciences. The research group consisted of 194 students from the Faculty of Sports Sciences, who were determined according to the convenience sampling method. Ecological Footprint Awareness Scale which has 5 dimensions and 40 items, developed by Çelik Coşkun and Sarıkaya (2014) was used as the data collection tool. Data were analyzed by using Independent samples t-test while comparing scale scores according to gender, membership in an environmental organization, and having taken an environmental course. ANOVA analyzes were used to investigate the significant difference with age, place of life, and grade level variables. According to the results of the study, relying on the ecological footprint awareness of the students of the faculty of sports sciences, the awareness of the students is at a high level, they differ with various demographic data. For the students of the faculty of sports to have sufficient knowledge about the environmental effects of sports activities, the effects of different sports on the environment can be conveyed in environmental lessons or through environmental education.
Yazar isimleri: ['Feray KÜÇÜKBAŞ DUMAN', 'Elif ATABEK-YİĞİT']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Gazi Beden Eğitimi ve Spor Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gbesbd/issue/73252/1114228
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2417809
