Makale Başlığı: The effect of western conifer seed bug (Leptoglossus occidentalis Heidemann) on stone pine (Pinus pinea L.) seeds in Bursa
Özet: Stone pine (Pinus pinea L.) is one of the five natural pine species in Türkiye, and it is distributed in all Mediterranean coastal areas from Portugal to Anatolia. It naturally distiributes in the provinces of Artvin, Trabzon, Bartın, Bursa, İzmir, Aydın, Muğla, Antalya, Kahramanmaraş in Türkiye. In recent years, it has been reported that the western conifer seed bug (Leptoglossus occidentalis Heidemann) pierces the cones of coniferous tree species and damages their seeds. The insects insert their mouth stylets into the conifer tissue, it secretes digestive enzymes into the seed and sucks the embryos that it liquefies. Although the insect causes damage to many coniferous tree species, it has come to the forefront especially with the damage it causes to pine seed production in our country. In this study, the effect of western conifer seed bug (Leptoglossus occidentalis Heidemann) on stone pine (Pinus pinea L.) seeds in Bursa was investigated. Within the scope of the study, the average sound-empty-damaged seed ratios were determined as a result of the cutting test. According to the results of the cutting test, it was determined that the average insect damage was 61.2% in the three populations. The average sound seed rate in the three populations was 29.4%, and the average empty seeds rate was 9.4%. In order to determine the effect of insect damage on germination, the seed germination tests were conducted at 20 °C, after prechilling for 0 (control) and 4 weeks. The average germination rate was 13.8% in the control group, prechilling did not have a favorable effect on the germination percentage. The effect of the bug on the seeds of other coniferous species in our country should be investigated.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bülent BULUT', 'Mehmet KALKAN', 'Mustafa YILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Ağaç ve Orman
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/agacorman/issue/71436/1123905
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2457963
