Makale Başlığı: MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AUDITS IN THE FOOD SECTOR AND ENCOUNTERED PROBLEMS
Özet: The most basic element in accessing safety food is the audit. Food factories and suppliers regularly undergo inspections within the scope of quality management and food safety. These audits include the requirements set by the current legal regulations as well as the issues stipulated by social compliance standards. In this respect, although the content of the inspections mainly covers food safety and food quality issues, there may be occupational health safety, environment, social compliance, religious expectations, food defense, agricultural production methods and special customer expectations. Product quality criteria and practices are published as standards by international standard commissions, manufacturers and retailer associations, national and international chain markets. The goal of the standards set for this purpose is to guarantee food safety, food quality and the health and expectations of consumers. In addition, it is to eliminate the risks that may arise from the management practices of the factories. Food factories, which constitute a very wide structure as a sector, provide very serious benefits from their standard implementation but may experience some difficulties during inspection practices. It is clear that especially small and medium-sized factories need the right information sources and financial support to develop. In this study, the aims of establishing standards, their scope, the benefits provided by the producers, the problems experienced in the applications and possible solution suggestions and future expectations were evaluated.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa Kemal DEMİRAĞ', 'A. Zeki HEPÇİMEN', 'Fırat ÖZEL', 'Ömer Kemal KEMAHLIOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Mühendislik Bilimleri ve Tasarım Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jesd/issue/72809/1076247
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2264170
