Makale Başlığı: CLINICAL RESULTS AND PATIENT SATISFACTION AFTER TOTAL KNEE ARTROPLASTY: WHO ARE MORE SATISFIED?
Özet: AIM: It was aimed to evaluate the pain, functional status and satisfaction levels of patients who underwent total knee arthroplasty (TKA) for primary knee osteoarthritis and to examine the relationship between satisfaction levels and demographic and clinical characteristics.MATERIAL AND METHOD: The data of 44 patients who underwent TKA due to stage III or IV primary knee osteoarthritis, one-year after the operation and who had adequate follow-up were analyzed retrospectively. Demographic and clinical features were recorded. The Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) was used to evaluate pain severity and function before surgery and one-year after surgery. The satisfaction level of the patients in the first year after the operation was assessed with a 5-point Likert scale.RESULTS: All WOMAC scores (WOMAC-pain, WOMAC-stiffness, WOMAC-function, and WOMAC-total) decreased statistically significantly at one-year after surgery compared to pre-surgery. The proportion of patients who were very satisfied and satisfied at one-year after TKA was 93.2%. Female, single/widowed, not compliant with home exercise program, and those with musculoskeletal pain originating from other regions had lower satisfaction levels (all p<0.05).CONCLUSION: Our study supported that TKA is a treatment modality in which significant improvements in pain and functional status were detected in patients with advanced primary knee osteoarthritis and satisfaction was achieved in the majority of patients. The level of satisfaction can be increased by ensuring the continuity of the home exercise program after the operation and socially supporting especially female, single/widowed and lonely lived patients. In addition, it should not be ignored that dissatisfied patients may have musculoskeletal pain originating from other regions.
Yazar isimleri: ['İzzet KORKMAZ', 'Nurdan KORKMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Ankara Eğitim ve Araştırma Hastanesi Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aeahtd/issue/72447/1061341
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2206126
