Makale Başlığı: Effects of Polyphenol-rich Cornelian Cherry (Cornus mas L.) and Barberry (Berberis vulgaris) Fruits Extract on Reducing in vitro Starch Digestibility: An Evaluation of Hydrolysis Index
Özet: The  purpose  of this study  was to investigate  the  polyphenol-rich cornelian cherry (Cornus masL.)  and  barberry  (Berberis  vulgaris)  fruits  extract  on  reducing  the in  vitro starch digestibility  of  white  bread  and  evaluation  of  glycemic  indexes.  When  we  evaluated  the association  between  the Rapidly  digestible  starch  (RDS)  and  Hydrolysis  index  (HI),  the amount  of  RDS  was  decreased  by  the  treatments  of  barberry  extract  and  cornelian  cherry extract and the HI of white bread was also decreased. It is thought that the barberry has more inhibitory effects on α-amylase  activity  than  cornelian  cherry.  We  also  demonstrated  that dietary  polyphenols  such  as  anthocyanins  and  catechins  found  in  cornelian  cherry  and barberry fruit reduced starch digestion by inhibiting α-amylase and α-glucosidase. When we compare the RDS, SDS, and RS values between the cornelian cherry and barberry treatments, the  barberry  treatment  on  WB  showed  a  better-quality  starch  fraction  than  the  cornelian cherry  treatment.  This  may  be  because  the  barberry  has  a  higher  amount  of  antioxidant capacity than the cornelian cherry. Generally, two berry fruits had the effect of reducing the starch digestibility of WB. Thus, consumption of colored berries may contribute to reducing the  GI  of  foods.These  findings  are  demonstrating  that  barberry  and  cornelian  cherry consumption is favorable for the dietary management of metabolic disorders such as diabetes and  hyperlipidemia.  According  to  the  results  of  this  study,  functional  products  can  be developed  to  control  blood  glucose  in  diabetes. There is  a  need  for  more  comprehensive studies on this subject that will reveal the causes of the problem.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 15 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Innovative Research and Reviews
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/injirr/issue/71377/1147778
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2553820
