Makale Başlığı: Pandemic Period Images in Middle School Students' Pictures (Case of Denizli Province)
Özet: The Covid-19 epidemic, which affected the whole world in the first months of 2020, caused radical changes in many areas of life. Students in education life have been one of the groups most affected by the pandemic period. Face-to-face education was suspended, and distance education continued. It has been observed that middle school students who can use the internet and technology well today adapt to this new order more easily. Although the students kept up with this new era, they also faced a series of negative results. This study is important in terms of leading the researches to be done about the traces left by the subjects such as the beginning of the curfews with the pandemic period, the break in education, social distance, risk of contamination, and future anxiety. The study group of the research was formed with the participation of a total of 12 students between the ages of 10-14, studying in Denizli Merkezefendi district in the 2021-2022 academic year. Qualitative research techniques were used in this study, in which the reflections of the effects of the pandemic period on the pictures of children in the 10-14 age group included in the Z generation were interpreted. As a result of the research, it is recommended that in the process of transitioning to face-to-face education, children should prepare special programs and activities in order to repair their losses both academically and spiritually. There are no significant differences in the socioeconomic status of the students in the region where the research was conducted. It is recommended to conduct similar studies by determining a larger population and sample where this difference is evident. As a result of the research, it was seen that the students used yellow, green and red colors in the virus schemes they used. When the pictures were examined, it was observed that the children tried to describe the virus as a monster trying to swallow the world. The painting of living plants such as trees and flowers used in the paintings as dried has been one of the common drawing images. Another of the common features encountered in the paintings is that the human figures drawn are unhappy, pessimistic and alone. Also sun, earth etc. other planets are drawn unhappily in elements such as clouds. The human figures drawn due to the curfews were depicted either inside the house or on the balconies of the apartments.
Yazar isimleri: ['Feryal ORHUN']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Sınırsız Eğitim ve Araştırma Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sead/issue/73440/1192230
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2721272
