Makale Başlığı: Comparing The Social Gender Perception Of Health Sciences Faculty Students with Other Department Students
Özet: Aim: Gender perception, culture, religion, education, family structure, education of parents, etc. shaped by factors. The aim of this study is to examine the perception of gender among university students. Methods: This study is descriptive research. In this study, in order to examine the gender distribution of university students, the Social Gender Questionnaire (SGQ) was applied to students from a total of 731 different departments, 446 girls and 285 boys, and an information form for the demographic data of the participants. Data coding and evaluation were done in SPSS 21.0 package program in computer environment. In data evaluation, number, mean, percentile distributions, standard deviation, Cronbach alpha coefficient and Pearson Correlation analyzes were used. Results: The SGQ score of female students mean=112.13, 11.80 is higher than that of male students mean=92.92, 19.34. The SGQ score of the students of the faculty of health sciences is lower than the students of other departments mean=101.01, 18.99. It was determined that there was a statistically significant positive correlation between the participants' total mean scores of SGQ Scores and their sociodemographic data scores. Conclusion: In the research focus, the cluster with the lowest mean SGQ score; while male students studying in health sciences and whose father's education level is primary school or below, the cluster with the highest SGQ score; are female students studying in the departments of medicine-dental, engineering, education, business administration and gastronomy. It was found that the father's education level affected the SGQ score; Students with a father's higher education had a higher SGQ score.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hatice GÜLSOY', 'Fatma Özlem ÜNER']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Medical Research Reports
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mrr/issue/73279/1132251
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2492776
