Makale Başlığı: Ibrahim b. Sa’d (183/799) and Kitâb Al-Mubtada’ va’l-Mab’as va’l-Maghâzî Narration’s Reflections on Ahmad b. Hanbal’s Al-Musnad
Özet: Ibn Ishâq’s Sīrat is one of the most important and influential books written in the field of sīrah. The fact that Ibn Ishāq was considered to be a reliable muhaddis and historian. For this reason, many of his narrations were used in works written at a later date in Islamic sciences. Also, it is understood that his students, who were considered reliable, were also influential in this. One of these is Ibrahim b. Sa’d. He is not only a narrator of Ibn Ishâq’s narrations, but also he had one of the famous version of Ibn Ishâq’s Sīrat. It is said that he has the first version of Sīrat. This point is important in terms of determining the differences between the versions of the narrators like Salamah b. Fazl and Bakkāī and revealing the stages that Sīrat change or not. This is possible with the determination or construction of Ibrahim b. Sa’d’s version. The version of his Sīrat has not survived until today. In addition to this, by determining the narrations from Ibrahim b. Sa’d > Ibn Ishâq in sīrah and hadith sources, important informations about this version can be obtained. According to Mutā’ al-Tarābīshī, the version of Ibrahim b. Sa’d was dissolved in the works of many scholars. However, it has been determined that Ahmad b. Hanbal who is one of these scholars, made extensive usage of Ibrahim b. Sa’d’s version in his al-Musnad. Due to this and similar prominent issues, the importance of the narrations that Ahmad b. Hanbal narrated from Ibrahim b. Sa’d > Ibn Ishâq is increasing and their determination is gaining importance. In this article, firstly, in short, information about Ibrahim b. Sa’d’s life, scientific personality, works and death are given. Then, the sīrah narrations, which are thought to be found in Ibrahim b. Sa’d’s Sīrat version in Ahmad b. Hanbal’s al-Musnad, have been determined. The determined narrations were compared with the versions of Sîrat that have survived to until today. In addition, if the narrations, which could not be detected in Sîrat versions, are found in hadith sources, some of these sources are recorded. Finally, attention was drawn to the prominent points related to the general characteristics of Ibrahim b. Sa’d’s narrations and some evaluations were made. With this study, It is thought that a significant part of Sīrat’s Ibrâhim b. Sa’d version has been determined and this version will contribute to the construction of this version by determining the parts of it in other sources.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ramazan TOPAL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Akademik Siyer Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/samer/issue/70654/1084798
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2297945
