Makale Başlığı: Effects of Different Power Levels Used in Microwave Drying Method on Color Changes of Oyster Mushroom (Pleurotus Ostreatus)
Özet: Color of dried edible material is one of the most essential considerations for consumers when making product purchases. The similarity between the color of the dried product and the color of the fresh product increases their marketability. The primary objective of drying operations is to dry products with minimal energy consumption, to prevent the growth of microorganisms, preserve their flavor and nutritional value, to make the moisture content suitable for storage, and to ensure that the color change after drying closely resembles that of the fresh product. This study seeks to dry Oyster mushrooms (Pleurotus spp.) at different drying power levels (90 W, 180 W, 360 W, and 600 W) using the microwave drying method of thin slices and to determine the color changes of the dried mushrooms. As a result of the trials carried out in the laboratory, it was discovered that the increase in drying power caused the samples to dry faster. At the end of the drying period, the colors of the mushrooms became darker than the initial levels. The highest change in brightness was recorded during the drying process at a power of 90 W. In the investigation, it was determined that the drying time was longer and the color change of the dried product was greater when the power was 90 W. Based on this, it can be stated that the color changes of the product will exhibit less deformation if the desired humidity level is obtained quickly during the drying process using the thin slice microwave drying method. However, this should just be viewed as a suggestion for minimizing color change. Numerous criteria, including color change, drying duration, nutrient content, and shelf life, should be assessed concurrently while determining the drying process.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sefa ALTIKAT', 'Mehmet Hakkı ALMA', 'Alper GULBE', 'Kaan KÜÇÜKERDEM', 'Emrah KUŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Iğdır Üniversitesi Fen Bilimleri Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jist/issue/73493/1134759
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2503162
