Makale Başlığı: PRINCIPAL COMPONENTS OF CARBON DYNAMICS IN FOREST ECOSYSTEMS AND PLANNING
Özet: Forest ecosystems contribute significantly to the carbon cycle in the atmosphere. Carbon is held in different pools inside and outside forest ecosystems. In order to calculate the total carbon amount appropriately, all carbon components related to forest ecosystems should be determined together with their contents. Carbon is stored in many different pools, usually in living biomass in the forest, live or dead trees, soil and harvested wood products, and indirectly in wood-substitutes. Carbon emissions to the atmosphere occur directly in the forest operations conducted in the forest, natural death and decomposition and indirectly in the harvesting, transportation and production processes. Determining the balance between carbon storage and emission as well as the long-term prediction of carbon dynamics requires accurate calculation of carbon pools with all components. In addition, it plays an important role in understanding the effects of energy production policies, forestry policies, planning and management activities on the carbon cycle and therefore climate change. In this article, first of all, carbon components were determined and the calculation method of carbon in each carbon pool was assessed. A general framework was developed for the calculation of carbon components and assessment were conducted by drawing attention to the role of each component in carbon reduction in the fight against climate change. As a result, it was pointed out that carbon pools should be determined and calculated accurately in order to determine effective policies and strategies in the sustainable management of forest ecosystems and to effectively combat climate change.
Yazar isimleri: ['Emin BAŞKENT']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: ArtGRID - Journal of Architecture Engineering and Fine Arts
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/artgrid/issue/70748/1049999
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2163204
