Makale Başlığı: Narrative Types Published in Türkçem Magazine and Its Contributions to School-age Children
Özet: Balkan geography is extremely important for Turkish history. The region, which was under Ottoman rule for about five hundred years, came under the rule of different nations after the Ottoman Empire. II. With the establishment of Yugoslavia after the World War II, the Turks living in this region were only able to receive education and broadcasting in Turkish. In this framework, Birlik in Skopje and Tan Publishing in Pristina are established. Various newspapers and magazines are published, books are published. In addition, a significant distance is recorded in the field of visual media. Turkish Radio and Television broadcasts begin. These ensure the strong survival of the social structure necessary for the survival of the Turkish communities in the region. One of these publications is my Turkish magazine published in Kosovo. My Turkish is a children's magazine published in Prizren on January 1, 1999. The owner and editor of the journal is Zeynel Beksaç. Trying to fill the gap of Turkish children's magazines in Kosovo after the war, the magazine aims to develop students' creativity, feelings and world of thought. In the magazine, works in various literary genres such as poetry, stories, novels, plays, fairy tales, legends, epics, articles, essays, memoirs, anecdotes, riddles, conversations and biographies are published. In addition, pages, corners, chapters, texts and visual materials that attract the attention of the reader are used. The magazine, which is also very popular with students, also makes important contri-butions to the development of Kosovo Turkish children's literature. In this study, we have taken the sixteen years from the beginning of the journal as a basis. Our aim is to examine the narrative types such as stories, fairy tales, legends and fairy tales pub-lished in Türkçem journal and to investigate the effects of these genres on children.
Yazar isimleri: ['Salih OKUMUŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Balkanlarda Türk Dili ve Edebiyatı Araştırmaları
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/balted/issue/71524/1130582
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2485765
