Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of the Relationship between Anxiety Levels, Temporomandibular Joint Dysfunction Scores and Orthodontic Malocclusion in Individuals who Seeking Orthodontic Treatment
Özet: Aim: To evaluate the relationship between anxiety levels determined by Beck Anxiety Index (BAI) and Temporomandibular Joint Dysfunction(TMD) prevalence determined by Fonseca Anamnestic Index (FAI) and Class I, Class II and Class III orthodontic malocclusions in youngadults who apply with the desire to receive orthodontic treatment.Material and Methods: 120 participants, consisting of young adults aged 14-24, who consecutively applied for the correction of malocclusions,constitute the material of our study. As a result of the clinical examination, individuals were divided into 3 groups as Angle Class I, II andIII according to their dental malocclusions. Each group is divided into two subgroups as male and female individuals. As a result, 6 groupswere formed with 20 individuals in each group. In addition to routine orthodontic examination, FAI was applied to evaluate the prevalenceand severity of TMD, and BAI was applied to determine their anxiety levels. Fischer’s Exact test, Mann-Whitney U test and Kruskal Wallistest were used to evaluate the data. Kendall Tau-b correlation test was used to evaluate the relationship between BAI and FAI. Significancelevel was accepted as p<0.05.Results: It was determined that the individuals participating in the study showed a similar distribution in terms of gender, number andage. According to the FAI, it was observed that female individuals with TMD symptoms were more common than male individuals, and allindividuals with severe TMD symptoms were female. It was determined that there was no significant difference in terms of distribution ofFAI TMD scores according to dental malocclusion groups (P=0.093). BAI scores were found to be higher in females than in males, and thisdifference was statistically significant (P<0.05). While there was no statistically significant difference between Class I, Class II and Class IIIgroups in terms of total anxiety scores, it was determined that the highest mean anxiety score was in dental Class III malocclusion. Whilea positive correlation was observed between FAI scores and BAI scores in both genders, it was found that the correlation value was higherin female patients than in male patients (Female r=0.537, p<0.010; Male r=0.319, p<0.010). There was a positive correlation between FAIscores and BAI scores for all malocclusion groups.Conclusion: It is seen that the differences in personality and psychosocial status of individuals who want to receive orthodontic treatmentwith different malocclusion types are reflected in different malocclusion types and TMD findings, and these characteristics are also affectedby the gender factor. While determining orthodontic treatment approaches and treatment alternatives, individuals with different malocclusionsshould be evaluated from a biopsychosocial perspective.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kevser KURT DEMİRSOY', 'S. Kutalmış BÜYÜK', 'Nursu BECET']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Batı Karadeniz Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mjwbs/issue/72438/1114749
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2419985
