Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Acupressure on Menstrual Pain
Özet: Objective: Dysmenorrhea causes women who are working and students to lose business power, school absenteeism, and serious economic loss. This study was conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of acupressure to reduce the pain of dysmenorrhea.Material-Method: This study is a randomized controlled experimental trial that was conducted. The population of the study consisted of 480 female students, between November 2016- and June 2017. The sample of the study was determined as a minimum of 38 individuals for each group using power analysis. 90 female students, who met the inclusion criteria and signed informed consent forms, were included in the sample. The data were collected using Information Form, Menstrual Symptom Questionnaire, and Visual Analog Scale. Acupressure was applied to the acupuncture points of hand and foot areas in the experimental group in the company with music for 10 minutes. The control group was made to relax in the company with music for 10 minutes. Pain assessment was performed with VAS before the procedure and on the 30th, 60th, and 120th minutes after the procedure for both groups. The data were assessed using the Chi-square test, Yates chi-square Fisher exact test, numbers, and percentages.Results: The present study had more application points (LI4 and SP6 on both arms and legs) and a shorter application time (10–12 minutes) and the experimental group’s pain measurements 30th, 60th, and 120th minutes after the procedure decreased considerably.Conclusion: Acupressure is a very effective means of decreasing dysmenorrhea. It can be assumed that applying acupressure with the same intensity for a shorter time is effective in reducing menstrual pain.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayça ŞOLT', 'Gülümser DOLGUN']
Yayın Yılı: 5 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Traditional and Complementary Medicine Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijtcmr/issue/71903/1052531
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2171540
