Makale Başlığı: An archaic example of human exile: The Pearl Hymn
Özet: The subject of this study is the Pearl hymn, which is thought to have been produced during the Ashkani period (250 BC-228), the founders of the third Iranian empire, which was established after the Medes and Akamenids. The hymn to the Pearl, which has survived as a Syriac text, has an extremely important ontological and epistemological content. In this hymn, the aim of the Ashkani prince, who was sent from the Ashkani imperial palace, which is the land of lights, to Egypt, the land of exile, is to find the pearl and return to his homeland. However, the prince immersed himself in pleasures and delights in the Egyptian caravanserais, fell into the charms of the land of exile, and lost his memory. The parents of the prince, who forgot his purpose, are aware of this situation and they send him a letter to remind him of his homeland, his purpose in the land of foreign country and the pearl. Waking up with a letter and recovering from amnesia, the prince takes action to get rid of the land of exile that he is not worthy of. Reaching the pearl by overcoming great difficulties and obstacles, and returning to the homeland, the prince is taken by the border guards and taken to the palace. It is remarkable that this symbolic story, which can be considered as the infrastructure and roadmap of the religious and gnostic thoughts of Mani, the founder of Manichaeism, was written before Mani and was almost revived by Mani throughout his life. It is seen that this story, which is thought to have influenced the mystical literature after Mani, has fed the Khorasan lore and Ishraq texts, especially in the post-Islamic period. In this study, the symbols in the hymn of the Pearl will be analyzed, interpreted mystical and philosophically, and thus will be mirrored to the philosophy of human fall and ascension. The aim of the study is to trace the human quest ontologically and epistemologically, in other words, to pursue eternal wisdom, by drawing attention to the existential pains of the human being, which is thought to be universal, through an archaic example.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1193065
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2724682
