Makale Başlığı: COMPARISON OF LICHTENSTEIN AND DESARDA REPAIRS IN INGUINAL HERNIAS IN TERMS OF POSTOPERATIVE CHRONIC PAIN AND RECURRENS; A PROSPECTIVE RANDOMIZED TRIAL
Özet: ObjectivePatient comfort is an important factor affecting theoutcome and success of inguinal hernia repairs.Mesh usage significantly decreases recurrence ratehowever, the problems due to mesh usage negativelyaffects the patient comfort. Desarda repair using thebody's own tissues has gained importance becauseit is more physiological and has low recurrencerates. In this study, we aimed to compare Desardaand Lichtenstein repairs in terms of chronic pain andrecurrence.Material and MethodPatients who were operated on at Konya Trainingand Research Hospital between October 2010and February 2014 were included in the study.Randomization was done using the closed envelopemethod. Desarda repair was performed in the firstgroup (D), and Lichtenstein repair was performed inthe second group (L). Both techniques were appliedas originally described. 3 questionnaires wereused in the assessment of chronic pain. All threequestionairres were filled before the operation, afterfirst and third year from the operation.Results162 people participated in the research. Therewere 80 people in the Desarda group and 82 in theLichtenstein group. The median follow up time was122 (96-145) months. There were 2 cases withrecurrence in each groups. Preoperative pain levelswere similar. The pain incidence, severity and limitedactivity were similar in the first and third years. Themean operation time was significantly lower in Dgroup than L group (44.5±3.7 min and 56.7±2.97 minrespectively). Complication rates were similar in bothgroups.ConclusionDesarda technique can safely used for hernia repairwith its similar recurrance, complications and chronicpain rates with the most commonly used Lichtensteintechnique. Moreover, it is advantageous withphysiological closure of myopectineal orifice, beingeasy to perform, not containing foreign material andbeing cost-effective.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ersin TURAN', 'Kemal ARSLAN', 'Ramazan Saygin KERİMOGLU', 'Hande KÖKSAL', 'Osman DOĞRU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: SDÜ Tıp Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sdutfd/issue/72867/1139412
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2520982
