Makale Başlığı: QUALITY EXPECTATIONS IN SHOES: A QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
Özet: Purpose- In addition to the product development of shoes, which is an integral element of people's lives and whose discovery dates backmany years, the quality growth in people's thinking continues. Although quality dimensions differ between persons and product kinds, asignificant number of samples may be used to assess quality perception in shoes. The purpose of this study is to determine how individualsperceive quality in shoes.Methodology- During the face-to-face survey, participants were asked why they thought the shoes they discovered were of excellent qualityor low quality. In the MAXQDA 2022 program, 135 individuals were interviewed and their data was examined.Findings- As a consequence of the research, 14 key characteristics of shoe quality were identified. Durability, convenience, perceived quality,beauty, dependability, health, price, diversity, materials, services, cleanliness, accessibility, and environmentalism are the dimensions listedin order of their frequency of mention. When looking at the word cloud, words like comfortable, durable, helpful, appropriate, and modelappear often. Nike, Adidas, and Kinetix are three brands that have excellent quality perceptions among consumers in terms of productquality. Because the majority of reviews for Nike and Adidas are favorable, it is clear that people have high expectations for these companies.Conclusion- As a result, when individuals' perceptions of shoe quality are analyzed, it has been discovered that durability, appropriateness,perceived quality, and aesthetics are the most essential criteria. Individuals' perceptions of shoe quality have been shown to be representedby the phrases comfortable, durable, useful, appropriate, and model, respectively. When it comes to brands, Nike and Adidas have beenshown to have a good quality perception. Finally, it was discovered in the connected study that for a shoe to be of excellent quality, it mustbe long-lasting, comfortable, and have a strong brand image and product design.
Yazar isimleri: ['Busra YUKSEL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: PressAcademia Procedia
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/pap/issue/71641/1152803
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2571235
