Makale Başlığı: Handling the Concepts of Prepositions and Conjunctions in the Arabic Language
Özet: Prepositions and conjunctions are auxiliary words, such as nouns and verbs, that do not have meanings on their own, but provide a connection between words and sentences. Undoubtedly, the understanding of sentences and text depends on the appropriate and correct use of such words. In Arabic, these words have many functions. Learning difficulties in Arabic are also due to the inability to fully understand them. Unfortunately, as in every language, their teaching in Arabic remains in the background.In this study, how the prepositions and conjunctions are used in the meaning of lexicon and terminology in Arabic is discussed in the light of the definitions and explanations made by linguists. It is aimed to get an idea about the preposition and conjunction in general without mentioning a special preposition and conjunction. In order to contribute to a better understanding of the subject, their use in Turkish is also mentioned.Prepositions and conjunctions are included in the class of words in charge in Turkish and help to understand sentences by establishing connections between other words and sentences. Prepositions are more general than conjunctions. Conjunctions are studied separately as well as under the title of prepositions. The task of establishing semantic relations between the words of prepositions and the connecting tasks of conjunctions come to the fore. Prepositions and conjunctions, which have a similar function in Arabic, correspond to letters, which are word types that are divided into nouns, verbs and letters. The letters meant here are not syllabic letters, but me'ânî letters that have meaning. Although mana letters are prepositions, prepositions are not just about them. Nouns and verbs that have the meaning of letters also have prepositions.
Yazar isimleri: ['İbrahim KOCABIYIK', 'Yeliz AÇAR']
Yayın Yılı: 13 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Akademik Platform İslami Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/apjir/issue/73819/1215539
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2816732
