Makale Başlığı: Risk Factors Encountered in the Sustainability of Honeybee Races and Ecotypes in Türkiye
Özet: Honey bees are creatures that have spread almost all over the world and have adapted to various climatic conditions. Bees are found in wild forms in some regions and divided into different species, races and ecotypes throughout the world. The main reason for the difference between honey bee breeds is the different genetic structure. Honey bee species and races, which have adapted to different environmental conditions, have emerged under the rules and criteria of nature's own selection. Climate, the presence of natural pests and vegetation has led to the formation of different bee races in different geographies. Each bee breed has the chance to live more efficiently and in its own geographical region. However, in recent years, as a result of the lack of control in queen bee production and colony sales and widespread migratory beekeeping, a significant part of the gene resources in Türkiye has faced the danger of loss. Although the appearance of the honey bees in their original regions is not very different from each other, gene flow and accordingly wide genetic variation can occur between honey bee populations due to uncontrollable hybridizations genetic crossings in different geographical regions where they are taken. This genetic variation is different from the natural variation and is thought to have arisen under the influence of humans. In this article, it is aimed to draw attention to some findings related to hybridization and adaptation problems of honey bee races and ecotypes in different regions of Türkiye and to present some precautions to be taken. Keywords: 
Yazar isimleri: ['Recep SIRALI', 'Şeref CINBIRTOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Anadolu Ziraat Mühendisliği Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/uazimder/issue/73593/1124744
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2461424
