Makale Başlığı: Facing the New Reality After the Epidemic: The Changing Response and Adaptation Processes of Digital Consumers
Özet: Due to Covid-19, radical changes have been occurring in daily life: individuals benefit more from digital networks enabling access to everything and everyone beyond the offline world. One of the biggest changes have occurred in consumption behaviors. In this respect as the method of this article, research data showing the changing purchasing behavior in Turkey and in the world during Covid-19 were examined. Also, literature review was conducted by using Baudrillard’s conceptual framework. The theoretical perspective is formed by Baudrillard’s thoughts on the postmodern consumer society. The problematic of this article covers the shift of consumers’ consumption habits from the axis of basic needs at the beginning of the epidemic. In this context, the research question emerged as following: these days, shaped by postmodernism and digitalization where we meet our needs with digital social networks, has the purchasing behavior of the postmodern consumer also changed?This study is important to become prepared for the new scenario of the post-pandemic period, to foresee the consumption trends in public relations and advertising practices when the world is being normalized again and consumers are digitalized more than ever before. Considering that the epidemic will enter its third year by 2022, it is vital to carry out studies covering the post-epidemic period in order to adapt to this new reality. To conclude, it was observed that the sale rates of certain products decreased both in Turkey and globally during the epidemic, and the anxiety experienced created the need for product stocking. Following this process, it is noteworthy that the purchasing behavior, especially in Turkey, has changed permanently due to new conditions and that digitalized consumers now tend to shop more cautiously. It is predicted that the consumers who were saving, will turn their suppressed demands into purchasing behavior after the epidemic ends.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: TAM Akademi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tamde/issue/73915/1220459
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2837554
