Makale Başlığı: Developing Nursing Students’ Innovative Approach Skills and Innovative Behaviors
Özet: Aim: This research was conducted to evaluate and develop the innovative approach skills and innovative behaviors of nursing students.Method: The quasi-experimental study based on a single-group pre-test-post-test model was conducted with a total of 360 nursing studentsstudying at a nursing department of university between November 26, 2019 - October 20, 2020. Data were collected using the “InnovativeApproach Skills Evaluation Form”, “Individual Innovation Scale” and “Innovation Education Evaluation Form”. The students’ innovationand innovation status were evaluated before and after the training. Analysis of study data was done with SPSS 22 package program.Results: It was determined that the students’ Individual Innovation Scale post-training scale mean score (62.58±9.73) was significantlyhigher than the pre-educational scale mean score (56.65±3.23) (p<0.001). According to the total score of the scale, in the IndividualInnovation Scale of the students, it was determined that 57.8% of the students were skeptical before the training, 40.6% were questioning,1.2% were pioneers, 55.8% were questioning, 19.4% were skeptical after the training. After the training, it was determined that the studentswere most inquisitive and secondly skeptical. A low but significant correlation was found between the mean scores of the scale after thetraining, and total mean scores obtained from Innovation Education Evaluation Form (p=0.000, r= 0.202).Conclusion: Although the mean score of the scale increased significantly after the training, it was concluded that the students were “lowinnovative” according to their innovativeness scores. In order to develop innovative, innovative behaviors professionally, these conceptsshould be adopted, awareness should be created on this issue. Health professionals who provide nursing education are responsible foreducating career candidates who are open to innovative, innovative approaches. More studies on the subject are needed in the field ofnursing.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yeşim CEYLANTEKİN', 'Dilek ÖCALAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Yükseköğretim ve Bilim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/higheredusci/issue/72432/1064209
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2217549
