Makale Başlığı: The Zawiyas of Bitlis Region in the Land Registry Books of 16th Century
Özet: As an institution of Islam, zawiyas refer to specify buildings or a groupof buildings where dervishes of a sect maintained communal activitiesunder the pious rule of a sheikh. From the earliest times, sheikhsand dervishes who wanted to establish zawiyas were supported byOttoman Empire via granting certain exemptions in miri (imperial)lands. As a result, the number of zawiyas that began to be establishedin Anatolia increased in time during the Ottoman era. These lodges,which were built as a Sufi institution on large Waqf lands ratherthan private properties, were mostly constructed on the outskirts ofcities and towns or on roads and passages. On the one hand, zawiyasundertook religious functions by meeting the spiritual needs of localpeople; on the other hand they took a social role by providing freefood, free drink and accommodation to the passengers. In addition,they served to spread Turkish-Islamic culture in Anatolia and Balkans,to facilitate the settling down of nomadic communities, and to opennew settlements. Upon a brief consideration of these characteristics,zawiyas in the Ottoman Empire represented a social establishmentwith their distinctive administration, religious understanding andrituals whereas they constituted a civil power thanks to their serviceeven in the most remote corners of the empire that helped to keep theOttoman administrative order.Ottoman Empire, after it was founded, attached much importance tothe building of zawiyas in conquered cities to establish Turkish-Islamicculture and to ensure its permanence. Like many establishments inthe empire, zawiyas continued their activities with the Waqf income.Waqfs were institutions that obtained income thanks to the systemthey generated and that produced services in a wide diversity ofsubjects on the benefit of society and the state. They were establishedor supported mainly by the sheikhs, sometimes by the state governorsin order to meet the needs of the lodges and to ensure the continuity ofthe services while they were helping the survival of these social andreligious institutions for long years.Having hosted many civilizations in terms of its strategical geographyin the historical process, Bitlis and its neighborhood were registeredat certain time intervals after the rule of Ottomans in 1515. The resultsof this registration were written in detailed registry books, all ofwhich include valuable information about the zawiyas located in andaround Bitlis apart from their income, their personnel and the wagesas well as Waqf properties of zawiyas whether movable or not, theannual income acquired through them and their means of operation.In this study, zawiyas in and around Bitlis were examined based onfour separate cadastral registers which were prepared in 1540, 1556and 1571 and an explanation was found about whether these zawiyascould exist or not today. Thus, an effort was spared to contribute to theemergence of the religious and socio-cultural history of the Bitlis inparticular, and to the cultural history in general.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Erdem
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/erdem/issue/70721/1137726
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2514743
