Makale Başlığı: “I am afraid that this Mecmua will fall into the hands of uneducated people after I die”: Mustafa Salim and His Mecmua”
Özet: Mustafa Salim, khadi and teacher, was the son of Mustafa  Raşid Efendi who was the chamberlain of Tevfik  Efendi, notable person of Rumeli. He died in Bursa when  he was an inspector. Mustafa Salim wrote Hüsrev ü Şirin  as well as many ghazals and historical verses. He translated  Fuzuli’s Rind ü Zahid from Persian into Turkish  under the title of Muhâvere-i Rind ü Zahid in 1804.  Mustafa Salim’s Mecmua is recorded with the number  of ŞR 494 in The İstanbul Research Institute. Regarded  as an example of mixed mecmuas by the researchers,  it consists not only of his own ghazals and histories but  also of the poems written by his father, Raşid Efendi, and  his step-father, İhya Efendi. There are also poems and  historical quatrains by other poets written in the form of  muamma, lügaz and song. Although his nickname  (mahlas) in the Mecmua was Kethudazade Mustafa  Salim, he also used Üsküdari as another nickname in his  other works.  Presenting the physical description and content of the  Mecmua, this article introduces Mustafa Salim’s poetry  with his biography, ghazals, historical verses, letters and  his delight recipes. It also presents certain excerpts of the  poems written by other poets.  Mustafa Salim’s Mecmua is important since it helps  us first of all to see Mustafa Salim’s poetry, which is  currently unknown to us. But, with the delight recipes,  the work also gives us clues about the cooking culture of  the time. With the notes and annotations, it portrays the  social life of the Ottomans. And with Mustafa Salim’s  letters of loyalty addressed to the vizier and bureaucrats  and his asking for their support, the work shows us the  aspects of Ottoman system of patronage in that time.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Haziran 2014
Dergi ismi: Divan Edebiyatı Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/devdergisi/issue/4672/63606
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/53630
