Makale Başlığı: Livelihood Status of Paddy Rıce Agro-Processors That Benefitted From Mıcrofinance Credıt in Jigawa State of Nigeria
Özet: The present research determined the livelihood strategy of rice processors in Nigeria’s Jigawa State using cross-sectional data collected from 200 rice processors (par-boilers and milers) in the year 2022 through multi-stage sampling technique. Using easy-route cost approach, data were collected through structured questionnaire complemented with interviews schedule. Both descriptive and inferential statistics were used to synthesis the data. From the empirical findings, it was established that high poverty incidence permeates the actors engaged in processing along rice value chain. Besides, most of the processors were multidimensional deprived in more than 50% of the total deprivation. Further, food insecurity was of high concern among the par-boilers unlike the millers were almost half of the sampled population were food secured. Nevertheless, most of the processors adopted survival strategy to stay afloat in livelihood sustenance given the poor access of majority to livelihood capital assets. A further investigation revealed that processors’ livelihood was challenged by large vulnerable household, thus exacerbate the pressure of household’s population on the available resources. Therefore, the study advise that production credit should be supplemented with consumption credit in order to enhance the productivity of the resources deployed by the processors in the rice value, thus enhancing their livelihoods and sustainability of the value chain. In addition, the processors need to be sensitized on the imperativeness of sustainable household size for a better livelihood in the study area.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sanusi SADIQ', 'Bashir Sanyinna SANİ']
Yayın Yılı: 13 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Bozok Tarım ve Doğa Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bojans/issue/73810/1137943
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2515654
