Makale Başlığı: Investigation of the videos published by YouTube content producers in terms of emotional abuse of the child in early childhood period
Özet: As the scale and use of social media apps grow, and as children also begin to join and become active in these platforms –without any significant monitoring–, a whole new form of child abuse came into existence. As a result, social media’s effects on children is now an important object of analysis and research. This study investigates if and how young Youtube content producers in early childhood years suffer emotional abuse by their parents, and the types and frequency of emotional abuse, based on the videos they publish. As the study does not entail any intervention on the cases and events analyzed, a qualitative research pattern was employed, in the form of “Multi-Modal Critical Discourse Analysis” method providing insights into multiple forms of communications including text, color, and images. The videos were selected through purposive sampling. The focus was on 4 children who produced content on Youtube. These content producers are noteworthy for having the highest numbers of followers. 10 videos with the highest view count with parents covered in the content were selected from each channel. The 40 videos thus included in the sample were all published in the last 6 years. The focus of the analysis through the videos was on emotional abuse and its sub-dimensions. The content of the videos were analyzed using the “Dedoose” software, with reference to the codes assigned to sub-dimensions of emotional abuse. Out of the 40 videos analyzed, 13 were found to include elements of emotional abuse. In the videos covered, the frequency of emotional abuse the children were found to incur from their parents was 33%. Mothers were found to be the more frequent source of abuse in these videos, whereas the most common forms of emotional abuse were reprimand and degrading. Rejection, overprotection, isolation, discrimination, comparison, abetting, and name calling sub-dimensions were not observed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sevilay ÇUBUK', 'Dilek EROL']
Yayın Yılı: 2 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kocaeli Üniversitesi Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kuje/issue/73669/1135119
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2504662
