Makale Başlığı: COMPARISON OF URBAN DESIGN IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS THROUGH OLD AND NEW RESIDENTIAL PATTERNS IN MARDIN
Özet: Fundamentally, dwelling is considered as a place that meets the need for shelter. Add to this, it is also an urban environment that is evaluated together with its environment and interacts with the physical, social and perceptual aspects of individuals. The spatial features created by the holistic layout formed by the structures and open spaces in the residential areas determine the spatial quality of the residential areas. The provision of spatial quality in residential areas is directly related to the levels of urban design in these areas. The layout of the residential areas, architectural typology, accessibility, structural and vegetative landscapes, climatic features, legibility and aesthetic values of the spaces are the components that make up the urban design of the residential areas. At the same time, these components are the criteria that determine the accommodation, comfort, privacy and social opportunities of the residential areas. In this direction, it is aimed to examine the formation of residential sites in the urban area through urban design principles and needs. In this context, three different residential areas that developed in different periods in the city of Mardin were chosen as study areas, and it was aimed to evaluate these three areas according to urban design principles. As the method of the study, an urban design criterion, which includes a total of thirty questions under six main headings was created. Evaluation of each area was made with yes, no or partial answers given to the questions, and the findings were converted to quantitative results using a triple Likert scale. In the research findings, it was concluded that the traditional residential pattern is sufficient in terms of architectural typology, climate and legibility. while the contemporary residential area of the city is at a sufficient level in terms of structural and vegetative landscape, accessibility, however, it is insufficient in other aspects. It has been observed that the residential area which is located between the traditional and contemporary residential area, forms an interface between these two areas and is the residential settlement at the weakest level in terms of urban design.
Yazar isimleri: ['Rüya ARDIÇOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: ArtGRID - Journal of Architecture Engineering and Fine Arts
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/artgrid/issue/70748/1087238
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2307311
