Makale Başlığı: Development of Metallic-Speck Textured Artistic Ceramic Glazes: Investigation of Surface Abrasion Properties
Özet: One of the factors determining the life of ceramic glazes used for decorative purposes is the glaze's re-sistance to abrasion and chemicals. The abrasion resistance of the glaze can be improved by increasing the hardness of the glaze. One of the ways to increase the hardness of the glaze is the creation of suitable glass-ceramic systems in which a harder crystalline phase or phases are developed from the glassy matrix. It has been determined that surface defects such as staining, and abrasion occur on the surfaces of the metallic glazed products produced after exposure to low-concentration chemicals. In the present study, it was aimed to develop recipe in an attempt to improve the resistance of the produced metallic surface products against surface defects. Chemical analysis of the used raw mate-rials was done by X-Ray fluorescence spectroscopy and their components were determined, and recipes were created in the light of chemical components. The characteristic melting behaviours of the created glaze recipe were determined by performing heat microscopy analysis. The behaviour of the recipes containing different amount of metal oxide powders (iron oxide, copper oxide, manganese oxide) from commercial companies on abrasion and metallic/artistic surface obtainment were investigated. It was determined that the acid/alkali resistance of the obtained metallic glaze recipes, as well as the results of resistance to citric acid, household chemicals, and swimming pool salts were improved. Also, matte glazes for wall tiles with metallic appearance, speck effect, and abrasion-resistant, and compatible with industrial fast-firing conditions have been developed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nihan ERCİOĞLU AKDOĞAN', 'Elif UBAY']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Advanced Research in Natural and Applied Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jarnas/issue/73467/1134869
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2503583
