Makale Başlığı: THE MEDIATING ROLE OF SECURITY PRIORITY IN THE IMPACT OF SECURITY TRAINING AND SECURITY AWARENESS ON SERVICE SABOTAGE
Özet: The issue of safety is becoming increasingly important in organizations where occupational accidents and injuries are common. Organizations need to give more space to safety training in order to reduce work accidents and injuries and prevent possible situations. Otherwise, there may be disruptions in the services to be provided due to an accident in the organizations. However, employees who have received security training and have sufficient awareness of security prioritize safety while doing business. Thus, service sabotage, which means the deliberate delay or non-performance of services, can be avoided. Because in organizations experiencing service sabotage, disruptions may occur in business processes and services to be provided. This situation may cause loss of customers, serious financial losses and thus damage the existence of the organization. The main purpose of the study is to determine the mediating role of security priority in the effect of security education and security awareness on service sabotage. In addition, the interactions between the concepts will be examined within the scope of the study. The sample of the study consists of the employees of an enterprise that produces sheet metal and metal processing machines in Kayseri (n=328). According to the results of the analysis, the service sabotage of the security training negatively; the safety priority of safety education positively; negative service sabotage of security awareness; It has been determined that security awareness affects security priority positively and security priority affects service sabotage negatively. In addition, it has been determined that security priority has a mediating effect on the effect of security training on service sabotage. However, it has been determined that security priority does not have a mediating effect on the effect of security awareness on service sabotage.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ethem MERDAN']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Bilgi Ekonomisi ve Yönetimi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/beyder/issue/70500/1122756
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2453404
