Makale Başlığı: Investigation of Cardinium endosymbiont in the micro-fauna of granaries and surroundings
Özet: Cardinium is an endosymbiotic bacterium known as a reproductive manipulator in terrestrial ecosystem arthropods. Although Cardinium host species have been identified in recent studies, its prevalence is relatively low, perhaps due to the investigation of fewer taxonomic groups. This study was aimed to investigate Cardinium bacteria in micro-fauna samples in granaries of Turkey, which has suitable conditions for the distribution of arthropods. For this purpose, Stratiolaelaps scimitus (Womersley, 1956) (Acari: Laelapidae), Entomobrya sp. (Collembola: Entomobryidae), and Balaustium sp. (Acari: Actinotrichida) samples were investigated using the Cardinium Clo primer set and compared with the endosymbiont of Bemisia tabaci (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae). It was determined that the Cardinium sequences from S. scimitus and Entomobrya sp., obtained from granaries and in close contact with each other, were quite similar and could be considered as a monophyletic group. This data can be considered as an indicator of horizontal transfer of Cardinium between these two taxa. However, Balaustium sp. and B. tabaci endosymbiont Cardinium are phylogenetically distant from them. It is thought that this study, which presents the first data on Cardinium endosymbiont in the granary microfauna, will contribute to studies on endosymbiotic bacteria, which are promising reproductive manipulators in the fight against harmful species, especially in agricultural production under pressure due to global warming, decreasing production, and increasing food demand. However, considering the diversity, distribution, and ecological niches of the studied species, more studies are needed to determine the prevalence of Cardinium.
Yazar isimleri: ['Tayfun KAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Bitki Koruma Bülteni
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bitkorb/issue/72728/1159274
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2585288
