Makale Başlığı: The Role of Jerusalem in the Context of the Disruption of the Central Authority in the Ayyubid State in the Period of al-Malik al-Afdal
Özet: The Ayyubid State (1175-1250) ruled for about a century in a geography stretching from the “Middle East”, Egypt, Hijaz, al-Jazeera, Yemen to even North Africa, from the last quarter of the XII century to the middle of the XIII century. Salah al-Din al-Ayyubi, who succeeded in establishing the unity of Muslims after long efforts, fought the Crusaders on behalf of the Muslim world and recaptured the city of Bayt al-Maqdis, considered significant for different faiths, in 583/1187. al-Malik al-Afdal Nur al-Din Ali (565-622/1169-1225) was an important personality both in terms of his place in the family and the role he played in the Crusades during the time of his father, Salah al-Din. Both being the eldest son and his success in the wars with the Crusaders enabled him to be appointed as heir. He sat on the throne of the Ayyubid State after his father's death. However, after he took the throne, some important princes and scholars beside him were disturbed both by his Wazir Diyaʾ al-Din ibn al-Athir’s interference and his inexperience in the state administration. For these reasons, some of the important individuals who left al-Afdal went to Egypt, to prompt his brother al-Aziz (567-595/1172-1198) to take the throne. Thus, al-Aziz started preparing to march on Damascus. Understanding the intentions of al-Aziz over Damascus, al-Afdal wanted to make a treaty between with him by giving him Bayt al-Maqdis, which is important in terms of both spiritual value and prestige. However, with the suggestions of some princes, he decided against giving the holy city to his brother. This situation caused the outset of conflict between the two brothers. The city that unified Syria and Egypt under their father became during the reign of al-Afdal, the cause of separation between the two brothers. As a result of the struggles between brothers, al-Aziz became the head of the state with the support of his uncle and father-in-law al-Adil. However, after a short while, when al-Aziz died in Cairo in 1198, his young son Mansur replaced him. His uncle, al-Afdal, started to befriend him. However, this time, al-Afdal fought with his uncle, al-Adil. As a result of these struggles, al-Afdal was defeated by his uncle and had to retreat to Samsat. In this paper, the central authority gap caused by al-Afdal in the Ayyubid State and the role of Bayt al-Maqdis in the formation of this gap will be discussed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Behice GEZGİNCİ', 'Abdullah DUMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Islamicjerusalem Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/beytulmakdis/issue/71035/811247
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1347405
