Makale Başlığı: RECIPROCITY IN CYBERWAR
Özet: The rapid integration of semiconductor technologies, which developed rapidly in the twentieth century, into our daily lives has brought about infrastructure changes used in the processing and management of information. The rapid developments in information and communication technologies and the innovations these developments offer to the world have led to the emergence of a new concept called informatics. As a result of the developments in the world of informatics, the society's use of information and communication technologies has diversified. This virtual world, which is formed in line with these opportunities offered by the internet and technological development, and has no time and space limitations, is called cyberspace. Ease of communication in cyberspace, where there is no time and space restriction brought about by globalization and fast technology, causes important security gaps and cyber threats and attacks. Cyber threats and attacks can be made against physical infrastructure or control systems over internet networks. Cyber attacks can occur between countries, as well as in the form of terrorist attacks by individuals, terrorist organizations or activist organizations. However, it may not be possible to respond in accordance with the principle of reciprocity in the face of every cyber attack activity. At this point, questions arise about how the concept of reciprocity, which is defined as the principle of responding in a similar way towards the behavior exposed in the international diplomatic arena, will find a response in cyberspace. In this study, a general evaluation is made on the detection of cyber attacks and attribution of responsibilities in the context of the concepts of cyber space, cyber attack and cyber warfare, and then there is a discussion on how to respond to cyber attacks based on the principle of reciprocity that should be applied during cyber threat and cyber warfare.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa Veysel GÜLDOĞAN', 'Şevki IŞIKLI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: AJIT-e: Academic Journal of Information Technology
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ajit-e/issue/73717/1197817
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2744210
