Makale Başlığı: The Investigations of Thomas Kuhn's Views on Science Education: Reactions in the Context of Indoctrination
Özet: In this article, Thomas Kuhn's impact, who is known as a philosopher of science, on science education are mentioned. Science education aims to develop the skills and understanding necessary for science learning, with a focus on developing ideas about science and the nature of science. One of the main purposes of science education is to determine the true nature of science and to determine an education model in this direction. In this context, the concept of paradigm, which Kuhn put forward as a result of his studies on the history of science, has led to a change in views on the nature of science and science education. For Kuhn, science education is the process of conveying the paradigm underlying the current way of doing science to scientists and students because science education is possible only in the normal science period. Kuhn's educational model is carried out through students who repeatedly try to solve puzzles or problems encountered in relation to the current paradigm. Kuhn's understanding of science education is seen by Karl Popper, John Watkins and Richard Bailey as a rigid, conservative, dogmatic and indoctrinational education approach with the claim that it prevents critical thinking. In this context, the article primarily examines Kuhn's thoughts on science education and the reflections of these thoughts in the field of education. Then, it is argued that Kuhn's views on science education are not dogmatic as claimed, he does not emphasize indoctrination, and that such interpretations cannot go beyond a radical approach. Finally, in the article, it is emphasized that Kuhn's understanding of science education should be evaluated only as a description of science education.
Yazar isimleri: ['Alper Bilgehan YARDIMCI', 'Mehmet Ali SARI']
Yayın Yılı: 14 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Temaşa Erciyes Üniversitesi Felsefe Bölümü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/temasa/issue/73839/1202382
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2763669
