Makale Başlığı: An Evaluation On Decorated Female Gravestones In Mardin
Özet: Death is a phenomenon that humans regarded as being part of the cycle of life, contemplated, sought to identify, and defined since the inception of mankind. It has been believed that death does not mark the end of a person's life, and rather the deceased migrate to another world and continue to exist there. Burial rituals among humans within the framework of the belief in the afterlife have been effective in the emergence of various types of tombs. Different types of tombs that arose based on faith are essential documents that reflect the society's artistic taste, beliefs, and cultural level. With the headpieces, inscriptions, figures and object embellishments they display, they indicate the gender of the person buried in the tomb. While male gravestones include headpieces called headgears, female gravestones reflect the female soul with the gentler and decorated compositions of embellishments reflecting the artistic taste of their time. Mardin, which bears the traces of countless civilizations throughout thousands of years of history, was plundered and devastated many times as a result of wars and invasions and the tombs in the city were also affected by this, with no surviving samples apart from more recent ones. Certain examples of decorated female gravestones dated back to the late 19th century and early 20th century in the Muhammed Zırar (Dırar) cemetery in Mardin were evaluated within the framework of the discipline of Art History. The samples evaluated are female gravestones, and these were categorized into three as those displaying shahides, cists and pehle stones.The evaluated samples' similarities and differences with other samples from the region and around the country are discussed in terms of material, form, technical, and decorative aspects. The samples reviewed in the conclusion section have been found to have similar structural and aesthetic qualities to tombstones found in locations such as Cizre, Savur, Nusaybin, and Siirt.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet BODAKÇİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İnsan ve Toplum Bilimleri Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/itobiad/issue/72362/1114767
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2420051
