Makale Başlığı: Hadiths in the Editorials/Main Articles of The Diyanet Gazetesi/ Newspaper and Diyanet Aylık Dergi/Monthly Magazine That Are of The Periodic Publications of The Presidency of Religious Affairs
Özet: This study examines hadiths in the editorials/main articles of the Diyanet Gazetesi/ Newspaper and Diyanet Aylık Dergi/Monthly Magazine that are of the periodic publications of The Presidency of Religious Affairs. The Diyanet Gazetesi/Newspaper, which started to be published in 1968, has been published as Diyanet Aylık Dergi/Monthly Magazine since 1991, changing its form and themes. Editorials in newspapers and monthly magazines, mostly written by the Directorate of Religious Affairs, have an important place in conveying the Directorate's message to society. The Directorate of Religious Affairs states that its services are based on the Qur'an (Book) and Sunnah. The Book and the Sunnah can be expressed the interpretation of the verses of the Qur'an and the words, actions and approvals of the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) within the jurisprudence system of both the mujtahid/jurist and the sects and to be a religious basis for the obligated/person in the form of a religious decree. Therefore, hadiths, which are an important element of the Sunnah, are extremely important for all Muslims in terms of both religious and socio-cultural life. This study, it is aimed to reveal the general framework of the approach of the Directorate in its services. The agenda topics of the newspaper, monthly magazine, and the hadiths in the editorials were analyzed according to the obligations given to the Directorate by the constitution and the law, with the classification of  "the pillars of faith and the creedal principles, worship, morality, unity, and solidarity, religious socio-cultural and actual life". The hypothesis of this quantitative study, conducted on 648 editorials published from November 1968 to December 2021, that "the hadiths in the editorials will be mostly about morality, unity and solidarity, religious socio-cultural life and related contents" has been confirmed as a result of the research. Of the 510 editorials that include the hadiths, about 10.5% of the hadiths are about the pillars of faith, beliefs, worship, and life of worship; 89.5 of them are in a framework that concerns the field of morality as a general category. This shows that the Directorates/Directorate adopt an attitude towards ensuring the spiritual-material peace of people and society by building the religious and social life with the principles brought by the religion of Islam in the field of individual and social morality.
Yazar isimleri: ['Cenksu ÜÇER']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Analytic Divinity
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jad/issue/73778/1196467
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2738655
