Makale Başlığı: The Mediating Role of Individualistic – Collectivist Culture on the Relationship between Organizational Justice, Job Satisfaction, Organizational Loyalty, Organizational Performance and Organizational Citizenship Behaviour *
Özet: This study aims to identify the mediating role of individualistic or collectivist cultures on the impact of organizational justice on organizational outcomes. The field research was conducted on the academic and managerial personnel of the four state universities founded after 2006, in the Eastern Black Sea Region of Turkey. The data were collected with a survey form. Accordingly, 414 managerial personnel voluntarily stated their thoughts about organizational justice, job satisfaction, organizational commitment, organizational citizenship behavior, organizational performance, and individualistic or collectivist cultures. Concerning this, the SPSS and LISREL statistical programs were used in the data analyses. The results of the data analyses demonstrated that there are statistically significant and positive relationships between organizational justice and job satisfaction, organizational commitment, organizational citizenship behavior, organizational performance, and individualistic or collectivist cultures (p<0.01). Moreover, there are statistically significant and positive relationships between the collectivist culture and job satisfaction, organizational commitment, and organizational citizenship behavior (p<0.01). Also, it was achieved that individualistic culture is significantly and positively associated with organizational commitment and performance (p<0.01). In addition, the test results of the research model indicated that there is a mediating role of collectivist culture on the relationship between organizational justice, job satisfaction, organizational commitment, organizational citizenship behavior, and organizational performance. Finally, the individualistic culture mediates only the relationship between organizational justice, and organizational performance.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gökhan KARADİREK', 'Kurtuluş Yılmaz GENÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: JOEEP: Journal of Emerging Economies and Policy
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/joeep/issue/66260/1090159
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2319282
