Makale Başlığı: Teachers in identification of gifted students: adaptation of an observation form
Özet: The first stage in identification of gifted students is the nomination step. Any mistake that teachers might make in nomination process might result in failure to identify gifted students or deprivation of relevant support that their skills require. Due to the quite detailed and long-term nature of teacher observations of children in recent years, it has been emphasized that teacher observation and resulting nomination process are very important in developing teacher observation scales and identifying gifted students. The goal of this study is to assist teachers in identification and nomination of 5-9 year-old gifted students. Another goal of the study is to test validity and reliability of Teacher’s Observation of Potential in Students Form, which is considered to be effective in selecting gifted students. The study was planned and patterned according to relational and methodological research type. Study data were collected from 179 teachers and 1252 5-9 year-old students in government preschools and primary schools affiliated with Directorate of National Education in Kırklareli City Centre, Lüleburgaz and Babaeski districts. Analysis results indicate that Observation Forms are valid, reliable and compatible with Social Skills Assessment Scale, Marmara Primary School Readiness Scale and Denver II Developmental Screening Test. It has been concluded that all the students nominated by means of Teacher’s Observation of Potential in Students Form passed the entrance test to Science, Art and Education Centre. Study results indicate that Teacher’s Observation of Potential in Students Form might be effectively used by teachers to nominate gifted students. As Teacher’s Observation of Potential in Students Form is capable of meeting the psychometric conditions, it might also be added that the form is valid and reliable.
Yazar isimleri: ['Serkan AKTEN', 'Emine AHMETOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Gifted Education and Creativity
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jgedc/issue/71264/1134262
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2500983
