Makale Başlığı: THE IMPACT OF THE GREEN MARKETING ACTIVITIES ON THE CONSUMER BUYING BEHAVIOUR AT THE ACCOMMODATION ESTABLISHMENTS: A CASE OF ARUS HOTEL
Özet: Nowadays, the number of consumers who are environmentally conscious and sensitive to environmental issues is increasing. In this direction, consumers expect businesses to show the necessary sensitivity to the natural environment. For this reason, businesses have adopted the green marketing approach over time, turned to environmentally  friendly  green  products  and tried  to apply them  in all  processes.         1 Dr. Öğr. Üyesi, Bilecik Şeyh Edebali Üniversitesi, İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Fakültesi, İşletme Bölümü, Bilecik-Türkiye. E-posta: atil.taser@bilecik.edu.tr2 Yüksek Lisans Öğrencisi, Bilecik Şeyh Edebali Üniversitesi, Lisansüstü Eğitim Enstitüsü, İşletme ABD – Üretim Yönetimi ve Pazarlama Yüksek Lisans Programı (Tezli), Bilecik-Türkiye. E-posta: bunyaminn.celebi@gmail.com With green marketing, businesses increase their reputation and gain an environmentally friendly business image and competitive advantage. In the tourism industry, where environmental awareness and the use of natural resources are of critical importance, green marketing practices are becoming more common day by day. In this research, it was aimed to determine the effect of green marketing activities in hotels with green star certificate, which are accommodation businesses, on the buying behavior of consumers. In this context, the opinions of 81 customers staying at Arus Hotel, which operates in Eskişehir and has a green star certificate issued by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, were analyzed by survey method. The data analysis was carried out with statistical methods and according to the findings, it was concluded that green marketing activities have a positive effect on the buying behavior of consumers.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 17 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Sakarya İktisat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sid/issue/72576/1174812
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2648757
