Makale Başlığı: Disinformation on Social Media: The Case of the COVID-19 Pandemic
Özet: With the widespread use of the Internet, a new era has been entered in global communication and information acquisition practices. In particular, social media freely provides an opportunity for the production and consumption of user-derived content.  In this way, media contents related to current issues can be freely produced not only by professional journalists, but also by ordinary users. Thus, unlike professional journalism practices, user-derived contents on social media platforms is opened to mass access without going through any filtering process. This situation creates a significant problem regarding the reliability of the news that are circulated on social media and causes the spread of fake news types on social media. While social media platforms enable its users to meet their communication and information needs instantly, thanks to its technological infrastructure that allows the production of user-derived content, it has paved the way for disinformation-containing shares to spread to the society in a short time like a virus. While this situation causes users to be misinformed and directed; endanger human life and public health.The purpose of this study is to analyze the content of the shared information about the COVID-19 pandemic, the role of social media platforms in the dissemination of false information. Within the scope of the research, analyses related to COVID-19 were examined by filtering with the keywords "corona, coronavirus, pandemic, coronavirus pandemic, epidemic" on the website named teyit.org, which was established to analyze suspicious information. The confirmations made in the 1-year period after 01 December 2019, the date of the first coronavirus case in the world, were examined with quantitative content analysis. With the research, it was concluded that the false news spread on social media about the COVID-19 pandemic caused an information pollution.
Yazar isimleri: ['Berk ÇAYCI']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: TAM Akademi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tamde/issue/73915/1220463
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2837568
