Makale Başlığı: Waste Management in Manufacturing Enterprises: Analysis of Studies in the Literature
Özet: The integration of innovative developments in the field of technology in recent years has accelerated production. There is a rapid increase in waste levels of enterprises due to mass production. It is necessary to manage the Waste Management process correctly and to place environmental management practices at the center of management strategies by businesses. Environmental needs and human-induced damage to the earth are increasing day by day. At this point, especially manufacturing enterprises have important duties in waste management. In this study, it was carried out in order to reveal what kind of practices are included in the waste management of the manufacturing enterprises. The study was developed in two stages. First of all, academic studies on waste management in manufacturing enterprises between the years 2018-2022 were examined. In the second stage, the waste management practices of the manufacturing enterprises of “Arçelik, Ford Otosan, Petkim, Şişe Cam”, which are traded on the İstanbul Stock Exchange (BIST 50) and are among the top fifty companies, are presented. Qualitative research method was used. The data cover a four-month period from May to August 2022. As a result of the research, five studies were found in the literature. It has been determined that academic studies on Waste Management in manufacturing enterprises are not sufficient. It has been observed that there is a flow towards lean manufacturing in the business management approach. It is recommended that more studies be conducted on waste management in manufacturing enterprises. On the other hand, the comparison of the studies on waste management in different sectors and countries and the applications made by the enterprises will contribute to the literature.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bekir DEĞİRMENCİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Bucak İşletme Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bifd/issue/73265/1173934
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2644912
