Makale Başlığı: EXAMINATION OF CORONAVIRUS CONCERNS OF TEACHERS WORKING IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS (AYDIN PROVINCIAL EXAMPLE)
Özet: This research was conducted to examine the coronavirus concerns of teachers working in public schools. The data of the research were obtained from 356 teachers working in Aydın in the 2020-2021 academic year. As a data collection tool, Arpacı et al. (2020) The Coronavirus 19 Phobia Scale was used. Descriptive statistics and non-parametric tests were used in the analysis of the data. Mann Whitney U - test was used to compare two groups and Kruskal Wallis H test was used to compare more than two groups. The Cronbach's Alpha coefficient of the scale was found to be 0.88. According to Arpaci et al. (2020), the reliability of the Coronavirus 19 Phobia Scale varies between 0.851 and 0.903.Looking at the results of the analysis, the Kruskal Wallis H study was conducted to determine whether there was a significant difference between the coronavirus concerns of the teachers and the age variable. As a result of the analysis, a statistically significant difference (p<0.05) was found in the somatic sub-dimension (p: ,002). As a result of the Post-Hoc analysis conducted to determine the difference between which groups, it was concluded that the anxiety of teachers aged 46 and above was higher than the anxiety of teachers aged 30 and younger. When the analysis results were examined, Kruskal Wallis H was conducted to determine whether there was a significant difference between teachers' concerns about coronavirus and the variable of education level. As a result of the analysis, a statistically significant difference was observed in the somatic sub-dimension (p<0.05). As a result of the Post-Hoc analysis conducted to determine the difference, it was concluded that the anxiety of the teachers working in primary school was higher than the anxiety of teachers working in secondary school.Looking at the variable of years of service, a statistically significant difference was observed in the psychological, somatic, social and coronavirus anxiety variables as a result of the Kruskal Wallis H test, which was performed to determine whether there was a significant difference between the coronavirus anxiety. number of teachers and years of service variable (p<0.05). As a result of the Post-Hoc analysis to determine the difference, the probability of teachers with 21 or more years of service in psychological and social sub-dimensions is higher than teachers with 16-20 years.Experiencing coronavirus anxiety; While teachers with 21 years or more service experience in the somatic sub-dimension have more coronavirus anxiety than teachers with both 1-5 years and 6-10 years of service experience; In the total score of the coronavirus scale, it is seen that teachers with 21 years or more of service experience more coronavirus anxiety than teachers with 1-5 years of service. It was concluded that there was no statistically significant difference between gender, marital status, branch variables, coronavirus anxiety and all sub-dimensions (p>0.05).
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet KUMARTAŞLI', 'Mehmet Şakir SALAR']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Akdeniz Spor Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asbid/issue/72735/1151762
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2567979
