Makale Başlığı: Postdoctoral Research Practice from Universities and Science Organizations in Turkey in Terms of Demographic and Financial Aspects: A Case Study
Özet: The aim of this case study was to present financial and demographic features of postdoctoral research of 11 universities and two scienceorganization in Turkey. Official documents and other available sources of the universities and organizations were used to achieve this. Thestudy also aimed to underline landmarks in history of posdoctoral research in Turkey. The study group, which was formed using criterionsampling out of purposive sampling methods, consisted of 11 universities with postdoctoral studies, Turkish Academy of Sciences and TheScientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey. Data of the study was collected using document analysis, through interviewsand e-mail corresponce with officers of the organizations in the study group. The data was analyzed using document analysis. Results ofthe study revealed that various types of postdoctoral researches in various branches of science, social science, engineering and medicine areconducted in universities and science organizations in the study group. Postdoctoral research is independant from postgraduate education,yet they are combined. Science and engineering research heavily outnumber social studies. Similarly there are more male researchers inthese organizations. Postdoctoral research is publicly funded and its objective is to obtain scientific and overall development of Turkey.Supposedly postdoctoral research will become widespread in more Turkish universities. So scientific research on various aspects of thisgrowing phenomenon should be conducted.
Yazar isimleri: ['Artun Kerem CANAZ', 'Kasım KARAKÜTÜK']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Yükseköğretim ve Bilim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/higheredusci/issue/72432/984381
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1931557
