Makale Başlığı: Intercultural Review On Uighur Travel Book Of Chinese Ambassador Wang Yen-Te
Özet: In this study, Uighur Travel Book written by Chinese ambassador Wang Yen-te was analyzed in terms of interculturality. Uighur Travel Book contains important information about the social and religious life, architectural structures, political power, geography, art, sports, and entertainment life of the Uighurs, the first Turkish state to be settled. For this purpose, the Turkish and English translation copies of the travel book were examined using the document analysis technique, and the elements of interculturalism in the travel book have been indicated under the relevant subject headings by making quotations from the work. As a result, it was seen that the unique cultural activities of Uighurs affected the Chinese delegation, Yen-te has frequently mentioned these cultural influences in his travel book. In particular, the developed social state mentality, arts, and entertainment activities in the Uighurs had a great impact on the Chinese ambassador. Besides, the abundance of Buddhism and Manichaean temples has been an important cultural data on the religious life of Uighurs. Thus, evaluations regarding social life were included in the travel book. Yen-te also indicated that Uighurs did not have poverty and that food was distributed to those in need. This case represents that there was a system similar to the soup kitchen system in the Uighurs and that the Uighurs had social state characteristics. The fact that Uighurs had prepared a special ceremony for the Chinese embassy delegation and had hosted the delegation with great hospitality were also among the cultural elements draw attention in the travel book.
Yazar isimleri: ['Rabia DEMİRKOL', 'Asuman AHMED ABDO SHABAN']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Akademik Sosyal Bilimler Araştırma Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://www.turkishsocialscience.com/tr/pub/issue/71312/1068991
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2235747
