Makale Başlığı: Species diversity of plant communities and relationships between environmental factors and plant diversity of Akdağ (Balıkesir-Kütahya)
Özet: This study was carried out in order to determine both the plant species diversity in the plant communities of Akdağ, which includes the plant communities of different floristic regions, and the relationships between plant species diversity and environmental factors. The cover–abundance values of plant species in the sample areas were determined according to the Braun-Blanquet scale. Plant communities of forest and shrub vegetation were grouped by using cluster analysis. The components of species diversity (alpha, beta and gamma diversities) were defined by using information theoretic measures. Environmental variables affecting the alpha diversity of the sample areas were determined by correlation analysis. The highest alpha, beta and gamma diversities were found in Cistus laurifolius-Pinus nigra subsp. pallasiana, Aristolachia pallida-Quercus cerris, Astragalus glycyphyllos subsp. glycyphylloides-Pinus nigra subsp. pallasiana groups. The most important environmental factors on species diversity are tree layer cover and elevation. There was a negative relationship between alpha diversity and tree layer cover and elevation, and a positive relationship with pH. In modeling the relationships between alpha diversity of the sample areas and environmental factors, the model with the highest proportion of variance explained (48.7%) was obtained in the stepwise multiple regression analysis. It can be said that the areas with reduced tree layer coverage, area heterogeneity and plant communities consisting of mixed tree species increase plant species diversity. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Münevver ARSLAN', 'Nejat CELİK', 'Kürşad ÖZKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Ormancılık Araştırma Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ogmoad/issue/68488/1005603
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2013113
