Makale Başlığı: Preventing Gasoline Thermal Decomposition
Özet: The trouble of reducing induction system deposition has afflicted the refining market periodically given thatthe very early twenties when thermal breaking started to be utilized. Control of the deposit-forming propertiesof types of gasoline by ingredients as well as via methods techniques ended up being a crucial component ofpetroleum handling, and also it has played an essential function in enabling the development in fuels that havebeen so required for today’s high-compression engines. During the period from the early twenties to thepresent, the problem has varied considerably in severity and in the manner in which it has been manifested.The initial surge of trouble associated with thermal cracking was eliminated first by chemical processing andfinally by the use of additives. This occurrence of the problem was almost entirely attributed to preformedgums, which frequently exceeded 50 mg per 100 ml. With the advent of catalytic cracking, stability problemswere made more complex by the introduction of new types of hydrocarbons and larger quantities ofnonhydrocarbon constituents, particularly of the oxygenated type frequently referred to as acid oils. Thesecompounds gave false indications of stability in accelerated tests and for a time were considered to bebeneficial as oxidation inhibitors. For this reason, the caustic treating processes used for sulfur removal weredesigned so that these compounds were allowed to remain in the finished gasoline. In the introduction part ofthe review, the issues of determining the effect of the residue in gasoline on the channels through whichgasoline passes are discussed. In the second part, the effect of commercial antioxidants on the combustionstability of gasoline is examined. Determination of new methods and features related to future methods byexamining the researches carried out today. The most important topic was the part where the effects ofgumming on engine accents and other parts of gasoline during combustion are explained.
Yazar isimleri: ['Cemil KOYUNOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Yakıtlar Yanma Ve Yangın Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/fce/issue/60446/541042
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/672801
