Makale Başlığı: How Social Networks Benefit From Big Data: Facebook and Twitter
Özet: With the development of internet technology, there has been a significant increase in the use of computers, tablets and mobile phones in our daily lives. With the emergence of Web 2.0 technology, users who access information only for reading have started to contribute to the content. Especially social networks have an important positon in terms of enabling users to produce and share content. Facebook is the world's largest social network, founded in 2004, that allows users to communicate and share information with each other. Founded in 2006, Twitter was launched as a "micro blog" and nowadays, it is one of the most used social networks. It is known that Facebook and Twitter, which have millions of users, have big data and benefit from this data. In this article, it is aimed to reveal how Facebook and Twitter obtain and use for what purpose their big data. Accordingly, previous studies related to this subject have been investigated through the Google Scholar, TR Index, WoS, Scopus and IEEE Xplore databases with the literature review method. Particularly, the studies using the data of Facebook and Twitter have been selected and examined. As a result of the studies examined, it has been determined that each content that users upload to Facebook and Twitter (gender information, education information, location information, likes, comments, tweets etc.) creates big data. It has been determined that big data, which has been analyzed using many different methods, is generally used by businesses to find customers for their brands and to reveal the attitudes of people about a certain subject or in election strategies to affect the outcome of political elections.
Yazar isimleri: ['Halime SUVAY EKER']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Bilgi Yönetimi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/by/issue/69559/983553
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1928084
