Makale Başlığı: Comparison of Daily Evapotranspiration and Reference Evapotranspiration Fraction Values Calculated using METRIC Model and Google Earth Engine FLux
Özet: Accurate evapotranspiration (ET) calculation is crucial in water resources management. In recent years, various remote sensing techniques based models have been developed to determine ET. Among these models, Mapping EvapoTranspiration at High Resolution with Internalized Calibration (METRIC) is one of the most widely used. In the METRIC model, anchor pixels must be selected to represent extreme conditions where ET is at potential level and ET is zero in the internal calibration process. These choices should be made by experienced users in both remote sensing and ET. However, this limits the use of the METRIC model. In order to fill this gap, the Earth Engine Evapotranspiration Flux (EEFlux) application was developed in the Google Earth Engine platform. With this application, the METRIC model is calibrated automatically. The aim of this study was to compare the daily ET (ETd) and Reference ET fraction (ETrF) values obtained from the METRIC and EEFlux model. The study was carried out in the agricultural fields of barley, sunflower, wheat, corn, sugar beet, potato and onion cultivation in Uzunyazı, Çayırözü and Yeşilören villages in Merzifon district of Amasya province. Landsat 8 satellite images of three different dates were used in this research. According to the results obtained from this study, although the ETd values calculated with METRIC and EEFlux were compatible (R2=0.87), the EEFlux-ETd values were generally lower than the METRIC- ETd values (RMSE=2.5 mm day-1 and MAE=2.38 mm day-1). Calculated ETrF values were calculated with similar agreement to ETd values (R2=0.88, RMSE=0.11 and MAE=0.09). Accordingly, although there are certain differences between ETd and ETrF values calculated with EEFlux and METRIC, ETd values can be determined very quickly with  EEFlux, without the need for local climate data and an experienced user.
Yazar isimleri: ['Emre TUNCA', 'Eyüp Selim KÖKSAL', 'Sakine ÇETİN TANER']
Yayın Yılı: 22 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Tarım ve Yaban Hayatı Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijaws/issue/72191/1061823
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2207894
