Makale Başlığı: Endovascular Treatment of Symptomatic Subacute Iliofemoral Deep Vein Thrombosis with Pharmacomechanical Thrombectomy: Our Single Center Treatment Results
Özet: AbstractObjective: In this study, we aimed to evaluate the efficacy of the treatment and present our 6-month results in patients treated with pharmacomechanical thrombectomy (FMT) with the diagnosis of subacute iliofemoral deep vein thrombosis (DVT).Material and Methods: Patients with 15-28 days from the onset of symptoms, swelling in the thigh or leg on physical examination, pain symptoms, and increased diameter and thrombus in the iliofemoral deep veins in color doppler ultrasonography (RDUS) were included in the study. FMT treatment was appliedto the patients. Post-treatment patients 1., 3. and at 6. months, clinical examination and color Doppler ultrasonography (RDUS) were checked. Presence of re-thrombosis, right-left thigh diameter difference, presence of venous insufficiency, pain degree with visual analog scale (VAS), and post-thrombotic syndrome (PTS) were evaluated with Villalta score.Results: DVT was in the left leg in 83.33% of the patients. The duration of the symptoms was 19.3±2.3 days on average. Sixty percent of the patients had at least one risk factor for the development of DVT. Technical success was achieved in 90% of the patients. In the early period, bleeding or hematoma at theintervention site was observed in 10% of the patients after the procedure. None of the patients developed vascular injury or pseudoaneurysm requiring surgical repair, major systemic complications or mortality. There was no statistically significant relationship between symptom duration and tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) dose used, degree of thrombus removal, technical success and rethrombosis (p> 0.05).All patients; there was a statistically significant decrease in the right-left diameter differences between the leg with DVT and the leg without the leg, VAS scores, and Villalta scores at the 1st, 3rd, and 6th month controls (p<0.001). There was a significant correlation between the decrease in Villalta symptomscores and technical success (p=0.002).Conclusion: In patients with subacute DVT, FMT is an effective treatment method because it can reduce the risk of PTS with complaints of pain and swelling in the early clinical period.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hasan GÜNDOĞDU', 'İbrahim DUZCAN', 'Medeni ARPA']
Yayın Yılı: 2 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Kahramanmaraş Sütçü İmam Üniversitesi Tıp Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ksutfd/issue/73295/938603
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1773526
