Makale Başlığı: Use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles in Open Mine Sites
Özet: Today, technological developments show themselves in the fields dealing with earth sciences as in every field. Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), one of these technological developments, have offered an innovative approach to many sectors. In addition to being used in various fields such as geodesy, disaster management, meteorology, agriculture and security, its use in mining has also become widespread. Topographic surveying problem in open pit mining sites is one of the important challenges to be overcome. Topographic measurements require expensive surveying equipment and professional technical personnel. UAV technology can easily produce solutions to the difficulties encountered in the fields by providing cost control. In recent years, in mining activities in the world; It is used in areas such as production planning, blasting, ore production and stock tracking and volumetric calculations, monitoring of slope sensitivities and changes, calculating the amount of waste, dust emission, security. The management of an open pit mine requires the acquisition, processing and storage of a large amount of information that is constantly changing over time. In this process, taking measurements quickly and accurately will be the key to an effective and stable operation. UAV can be an effective method in preventing unnecessary loss of time and cost control. Aerial monitoring, monitoring and management of the mine provides time savings and measurement accuracy compared to traditional methods. In this article, the structure of unmanned aerial vehicles, their advantages and areas of use in open mining sites, the availability of reasonable results and the benefits affecting the studies are explained by adding case studies in open mining areas.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gülsüm YÜKSEL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye İnsansız Hava Araçları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tiha/issue/70924/1124260
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2459432
