Makale Başlığı: The Art of al-Uslūb al-hakīm in Arabic Language Rhetoric and Its Reflection on Religious and Literary Texts
Özet: Expression is a manifestation of one's feelings and ideas. The person expresses his/her intention to the interlocutor in a unique way. This constitutes that person’s style of expression, that is his style. The style is classified as oratory, scientific and literary by the rhetoricians; it is accepted as a literary value element and measure arising from the use of means and methods suitable for the form and content of the subject chosen by the writer, in his own words. The word "muktezâ-yı hal", which means choosing the right style in the right place, can sometimes go out of the situation required by the outward for a literary purpose. The art of al-uslūb al-hakīm, which was initially discussed under the title of "the word goes beyond the muktazâ-yı zahir", has also been one of the frequently used means of expression in the Arabic language. This art, which is widely used in Arabic literature, especially in the Qur'an and hadiths, was initially discussed in the meani section of the science of rhetoric, and after the science of rhetoric became an independent branch by separating from other sciences and its sections were fully formed, it was accepted as one of the types of muhassinat-ı maneviyye in the bedi' section. This art is based on the principle that the answer directed to the interlocutor in bilateral dialogues is unexpected. Sometimes this art comes as an answer to the question asked, and sometimes it expresses a reaction to an action or a word uttered by the interlocutor. Especially in the early periods of Islam, Muslims didn't hesitate to ask the Prophet what they were curious about and wanted to know. The answers given to the questions asked sometimes satisfy curiosity with the information given on that subject, and sometimes draw attention to the inappropriateness of the question or are answered differently depending on the way it is asked. This way of answering also sets an example for the art of al-uslūb al-hakīm. Likewise, this art, which also mediates the solution of problems encountered in social life, appears in the form of short stories and poems in classical encyclopedic works. These examples show us that rhetorical arts such as al-uslūb al-hakīm are not just phenomena in classical sources; on the contrary, they are methods that exist in life and that people use in their social relations. Because in some places, when it is used as a tool to compliment the addressee, it brings benefit and interest to the speaker, and in other places, it concludes a boring conversation in a polite way in favor of the speaker. This art, which sometimes contains more comprehensive information with the intention of education, sometimes draws attention to the wisdom behind events rather than their cause. Our study includes the way the art of al-uslūb al-hakīm is handled in Arabic rhetoric, its relationship with similar arts that may be confused, and examples of its use in the Qur'an, hadiths and Arabic literature. There are differences in the naming and handling of some arts due to the phases of rhetoric and the different schools that have formed. An art that was called "iham" in a period can sometimes be treated as "tavriyah" or "mugalatah" by a rhetorician of a different school. The art of al-uslūb al-hakīm has also been given different names according to different periods and schools. While some of these nomenclatures do not affect the definition and classification, some nomenclatures put the art of al-uslūb al-hakīm directly into the field of another art. In our study, the relationship between the arts of al-kavlu bi'l-muceb and tavriyah, which has a similar method and purpose, with the art of al-uslūb al-hakīm, which constitutes the basis of our subject; and the points of divergence and commonality are mentioned. At this point, the words "uslub/style" and "hakim" are analyzed semantically and then the composition of al-uslūb al-hakīm, which consists of these two words, is explained linguistically and idiomatically and the connection between them is mentioned. In the selection of examples of the art of al-uslūb al-hakīm in the Qur'an, verses that don't require detailed exegetical research and on which the rhetoricians agree have been preferred. Similarly, in hadith narrations, narrations that don't require detailed hadith tahrij knowledge have been prioritized.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammed Emin GÖRGÜN']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kocatepe İslami İlimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kiid/issue/73811/1182154
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2679715
