Makale Başlığı: Effects of A Progressive Rehabilitation Program on Shoulder Internal Rotation Range of Motion, Acromiohumeral Distance, And Pain in An Adolescent Female Swimmer with Subacromial Pain (Impingement) Syndrome
Özet: Shoulder injuries are common in competitive youth swimmers because of sport-specific changes in upper extremity physical characteristics and acromio-humeral distance (AHD). These physical alterations could cause abnormal scapular kinematics and positioning. Subacromial pain syndrome (SPS), scapular dyskinesis, and SLAP lesions require a multiphase approach. A 14-years-old female athlete who has been swimming for 7 years had SPS symptoms for 14 months. She also had scapular dyskinesis and suspected SLAP lesion. She received 15 treatment sessions. We conducted a progressive and comprehensive rehabilitation program consisting of electrotherapy, thermal agent, mobilization techniques, posterior shoulder stretching exercises, upper and lower extremity strengthening, proprioception, scapular stabilization, and core stabilization exercises, rhythmic stabilization exercises, plyometric exercises, and the advanced thrower’s 10 program. Internal rotation range of motion (IRROM) with bubble inclinometer, pain with Visual Analog Scale, and AHD with ultrasonographic imaging were assessed before treatment and at the end of the 9th and 15th treatment sessions. Before treatment, IRROM was 52°, AHD was 10.67 mm, and pain intensity at rest and during swimming was 0 and 3.1 cm, respectively. After 9 treatment sessions, IRROM was 55.6°, AHD was 11.62 mm, pain intensity at rest and during swimming was 3.7 cm and 5.1 cm, respectively. At the end of the treatment, IRROM was 58.33°, AHD was 12.02 mm, pain intensity at rest and during swimming was 0 cm. A progressive and challenging rehabilitation program may positively change the scapular and glenohumeral kinematic patterns leading to an increase in AHD and IRROM, therefore a decrease in pain.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sevgi Sevi YESILYAPRAK', 'Halime Ezgi TÜRKSAN', 'Damla KARABAY']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Disabilities Sports and Health Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijdshs/issue/69962/1041097
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2148733
