Makale Başlığı: EXAMINATION OF THE DECISIONS OF THE SUPREME COURT ON THE PERSONNEL OF THE MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION (MoNE)
Özet: In this research, it is aimed to examine the cases of the Ministry of National Education personnel (except the central organization personnel) while performing their duties, which were reflected to the Court of Cassation for appeal. “What are the characteristics of the Supreme Court cases that were decided on the personnel of the Ministry of National Education?” The question has been tried to be answered. The research was carried out with document analysis in a qualitative and case study pattern. The data collection tool of the study consists of case documents on the official online page of the Court of Cassation and concluded by the Court of Cassation. The documents were accessed by using the sample decision search section on the official website of the Court of Cassation. In the decisions published on the Supreme Court decision search website, 605 decisions related to the education processes were examined in the word-based searches regarding the personnel of the Ministry of National Education on the Penal Chambers. Documents that are reliable in terms of being official were subjected to descriptive analysis. As a result of the research, it was understood that the teachers committed more crimes than the others and they were tried mostly for 	‘offences against physical integrity’ and "offenses against sexual invoilability". After the teachers, school administrators, civil servants, provincial and district National Education directors and servants come respectively. It has been concluded that school administrators, civil servants and provincial district administrators are mostly tried for "Crimes Against the Reliability and Functioning of the Public Administration", mostly for embezzlement, embezzlement and malpractice, and for "Crimes Committed Against Assets". It can be suggested that researchers can carry out causal studies that deepen this descriptive study and adopt an improvement-based control approach in reducing crime rates.
Yazar isimleri: ['Erdal TOPRAKCI', 'İbrahim AKIŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Mustafa Kemal Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mkuefder/issue/70958/1110070
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2401676
