Makale Başlığı: Development of Munzur trout (Salmo munzuricus) and determination of antioxidant enzyme activities in recirculating aquaculture system
Özet: In the study, a recirculating aquaculture system (RAS) was established, which is becoming widespread as much as it is in the production of marine fish in trout production today. The development and antioxidant enzyme activities of the juvenile fish hatched from the eggs taken from the broodstocks obtained from Munzur Stream were investigated. The trout fries (0.5±0.13 g) were stocked in 8 fiberglass tanks in the recirculating aquaculture system established within the scope of the project and fed for 120 days. The development parameters were recorded on a monthly basis. Then, at the 90th and 120th days, tissue samples were taken from the gill, liver and muscles to determine the oxidant and antioxidant balance, glutathione (GSH) and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and catalase. (CAT) activities were analyzed.          At the end of the study, the MDA concentration and GSH level were found to be highest in the gills. It was determined that there were differences between GSH-Px and CAT activities in muscle tissues (p<0.05). SOD activity showed a significant increase in muscle compared to other organs. The data obtained as a result of the study is also a source for studies to be carried out on the conservation of Munzur trout, whose numbers are decreasing day by day, within the scope of biodiversity, and for commercial studies.
Yazar isimleri: ['Erkan CAN', 'Esin ÖZÇİÇEK', 'Fulya BENZER', 'Mine ERİŞİR', 'Volkan KIZAK', 'Prof. Dr. Mehmet KOCABAŞ', 'Mehmet ATEŞ', 'Önder AKSU', 'Semra TÜRKOĞLU', 'Filiz KUTLUYER KOCABAŞ', 'Kadir YILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Menba Kastamonu Üniversitesi Su Ürünleri Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/menba/issue/70523/1070265
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2240987
