Makale Başlığı: The category of affirmativeness and negativeness in Gulistan Translation of Seyf-i Sarayi
Özet: The category of affirmativeness and negativeness are among the topics that have been considered  and made various comments since ancient times. These concepts,which are also included in the subjects of grammar,are generally included in syntax studies,that is, in studies related to sentence knowledge.In traditional grammar studies, the category of affirmativeness and negativeness is evaluated by the meaning and the form of the sentence. Sentences are categorized by four main titles as affirmative in form affirmative in meaning, affirmative in form negative in meaning, negative in form affirmative in meaning, negative in form negative in meaning.In evaluations based on form, it is looked whether the sentence carries any negative markers such as /-mA-/ means no, not. Such sentences are accepted as negative sentences in form. However, it has been detected that it is not paid much attention to the affective category in traditional classifications. In fact, the form is a representative of meaning and shapes by meaning. Therefore, the structures that express affirmativeness and negativeness should be expressed in a much more diverse way, not in a fixed number of forms. In this study, sentences are examined by functional method in the Gulistan Translation of Seyf-i Sarayi which is a significant relic of Kipchak Turkish according to the headings of being/not being, making/not making in contrast to the affirmative/negative approach in form. It is also aimed with these titles to be a supporter of a different approach in the semantic evaluation of the sentence. Gulistan Translation is a literary work which was adapted from Persian to Kipchak Turkish. As in Standard Turkey Turkish Language, a wide variety of sentence structures are not used, but the category of affirmativeness and negativeness are put forward by using various forms.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1192526
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2722530
