Makale Başlığı: Entrepreneurship in The World of Metaverse: Virtual or Real?
Özet: In this study, an in-depth literature review method was applied. Period; It examines academic studies and current information on the internet and its interpretation of entrepreneurship in the metaverse world. For those who want to be entrepreneurs in the world of Metaverse, business opportunities, conveniences and difficulties of Metaverse are evaluated. The concepts of virtual reality and virtual world, which are the leading steps of the rapidly developing digital age, are gaining importance. The metaverse world, which leads them and breaks new ground in the virtual world, is a universe in which it is predicted that investors will make large investments in terms of technology and economy. For this purpose, the researcher examined studies in the metaverse literature, and as a result of these studies, the subject of entrepreneurship in the metaverse world was discussed. In the metaverse world, the study results on entrepreneurship are seen as an opportunity to be seized economically. Those who will participate in the upcoming metaverse shift will seize this great opportunity. Another finding is that taking place in the metaverse world is not suitable for the time being in terms of costs. To avoid being affected by increasing costs, it is recommended that entrepreneurial individuals first determine a good idea and make a good feasibility study on how to realise this idea in the virtual world. This article is an original study that addresses the benefits, conveniences and challenges of being an entrepreneur in the Metaverse world. The literature review found no investigation on entrepreneurship in the Metaverse world. The fact that the Metaverse has the potential to have great effects on the business world and social life standards in the future makes this research more interesting. In addition, by specifying the impact of Metaverse on the business world, it has been tried to shed light on the problems and opportunities that large or small-scale enterprises and entrepreneurs will face in the future.
Yazar isimleri: ['Aysun Devrim YEMENİCİ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Metaverse
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jmv/issue/71114/1126135
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2467111
