Makale Başlığı: AN OVERVIEW OF THE ALGERIAN CONSTITUTIONAL SYSTEM IN THE LIGHT OF THE ARAB SPRING AND CURRENT DEVELOPMENTS
Özet: The demonstrations in many countries in the Middle East and North Africa against anti-democratic governments called the Arab Spring also occurred in Algeria. Even though the protest demonstrations began at an early date, the Arab Spring took a long time to produce results. After the peaceful protest demonstrations that started in 2019 and resulted in the resignation of President Abdulaziz Bouteflika, significant changes have occurred in the Algerian constitutional system with the new constitution being accepted in 2020. The relations between the legislative which was strengthened and executive branches were redesigned and it was aimed to become checks and balances between the legislative and executive branches with the Constitution of 2020. The French effect continues on the constitutional system of Algeria with acceptance of the Constitution of 2020. When we consider the implementation of the semi-presidential system in Algeria, it is noticed that the legal and political influence of France on its former colony country. Also, it is the significant implementation of the semi-presidential system in Algeria because the developments that led to the birth of the system occurred in Algeria. Also, it is very important that new checks and balances mechanism has been established with the establishment of the Constitutional Court in terms of Algeria. This article will examine the constitutional system of Algeria which is a very important country in terms of Turkey because of various reasons, and emphasis the effect of the Arab Spring on Algeria and the constitutional system of Algeria. Within the scope of the article, it will also be examined the constitutional changing process by focusing on the important political actors and current political developments in Algeria.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İstanbul Medeniyet Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/imhfd/issue/72794/1182041
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2679263
