Makale Başlığı: A Study on the Resource Value of the Futuhat-I Fariduniyye
Özet: Futuhat-i Fariduniyye, the writing of which was decided upon in 1022/1613-1614, is one of chronicles the history of the Safavids. Besides it can be interpreted also as a historical text of the Sayinkhani Turkmens in that it sheds light on the history of the Turkmens that resided in Dasht-i Gorgan. The fact that the author, Muhammed Tahir, was one of the Bastam Turkmens fortifies this claim. Bastami mentioned the biography of Faridun Khan, who was appointed as Amir al Umera to Astarabad by Shah Abbas, and his campaigns against the Sayinkhani Turkmens. Futuhat-i Fariduniyye is thus an excellent example of both a biography and a native history. The aim of this research is primarily to explain the biography of Faridun Khan-i Cherkess (Circassian), and then to underline the locations and more remarkable details of the lands of the Sayinkhani Turkmens mentioned in the chronicle. The study thus makes important contributions to the recording of the historical geography of the Turkmens. The status of the author as an official historian is clearly apparent from his statements related to the Safavid regional government and the Sayinkhani Turkmens. The subjective statements made with his task responsibility reveal the approach of the Safavid central government about Sayinkhani Turkmens. As a result, it can be said that the dominance of the Safavids in the north-eastern region of Iran covered also the settlements of the Sayinkhani Turkmens in the first quarter of the 17th century. This area included part of the Dasht-i Qipchak in the north, Bastam and Damghan in the south, Bojnurd, Kuchan (Quchan) and Daregaz (Dargaz) in the east, and the Caspian Sea and eastern Mazandaran in the west. It can be understood that the Sayinkhani Turkmens were perceived as rebellious by the Safavid government, who applied a subordination policy to the Turkmens. The resistance of the Sayinkhani Turkmens to Safavid authority and the wars between them led to significant casualties and destruction, especially in Astarabad and its periphery.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 15 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Selçuk Üniversitesi Edebiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sefad/issue/70218/1128599
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2477511
