Makale Başlığı: Identification of differentially expressed microRNAs in primary esophageal achalasia by next-generation sequencing
Özet: Molecular  knowledge  regarding  the  primary  esophageal  achalasia  is  essential  for  the  early  diagnosis  and  treatment  of  this  neurodegenerative  motility  disorder.  Therefore,  there  is  a  need  to  find  the  main  microRNAs  (miRNAs)  contributing  to  the  mechanisms  of  achalasia.  This  study  was  conducted  to  determine  some  patterns  of  deregulated  miRNAs  in  achalasia.  This  case-control  study  was  performed on 52 patients with achalasia and 50 nonachalasia controls. The miRNA expression profiling was conducted on the esophageal tissue samples using the next-generation sequencing (NGS). Differential expression of miRNAs was analyzed by the edgeR software. The selected dysregulated miRNAs were additionally confirmed using the quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).  Fifteen  miRNAs  were  identified  that  were  significantly  altered  in  the  tissues  of  the  patients  with  achalasia.  Among  them,  three  miRNAs including miR-133a-5p, miR-143-3p, and miR-6507-5p were upregulated. Also, six miRNAs including miR-215-5p, miR-216a-5p, miR-216b-5p, miR-217, miR-7641 and miR-194-5p were downregulated significantly. The predicted targets for the dysregulated miRNAs showed  significant  disease-associated  pathways  like  neuronal  cell  apoptosis,  neuromuscular  balance,  nerve  growth  factor  signaling,  and  immune  response  regulation.  Further  analysis  using  qRT-PCR  showed  significant  down-regulation  of  hsa-miR-217  (p-value  =  0.004)  in achalasia tissue. Our results may serve as a basis for more future functional studies to investigate the role of candidate miRNAs in the etiology of achalasia and their application in the diagnosis and probably treatment of the disease.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 23 Haziran 2021
Dergi ismi: Turkish Journal of Biology
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tbtkbiology/issue/64217/973637
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1888825
