Makale Başlığı: The Temliks for the Dynasty as the Source of Politics, Economics and Spiritual Force of the Ottoman Sultans in the 16th Century
Özet: It was accepted that the Ottoman sultans were the sole owner of the   financial resources in the country. According to this understanding, the sultans could donate the resources they controlled under the status of mülk (property) and within the framework of the rules of law. This article examines the reasons for the distribution of the mülks given by the Ottoman sultans, who ruled in the 16th century, to the members of the dynasty by the method of temliks (given property), and the results of these opportunities provided to the members of the ruling family. Within the scope of the study, the temliknâmes (property papers) obtained from the Presidency Ottoman Archives of the Presidency of the State Archives of the Republic of Turkey were evaluated in detail. The positive or negative effects of these mülks on the economic order are the focus of the article. In addition, how the financial resources subject to assignment were protected; when these cannot be protected who intervenes in these assets are the questions to be answered. It can be said that the temlik practices, which were spread throughout the country and had quite different types, were designed as a "temlik network". With this structure, the sultans and the central bureaucracy connected to them both tried to leave the important income sources of the state within the family and kept the balance within the dynasty under their control. Many people, from the female members of the dynasty to the grooms, were fed from this network. Despite all the legal and physical protections, the dynasty's properties experienced outside interventions, but they were tried to be prevented by legal means.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zafer KARADEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 7 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Cihannüma Tarih ve Coğrafya Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cihannuma/issue/73739/1215696
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2817428
