Makale Başlığı: It's Good to Die at Home: The Deathbed as ‘Tamed Death’ and a Death Education Practice
Özet: This is a social process in which people with different roles and status are involved.  In this process, many people such as family members, relatives, visitors, religious officials are actively involved.  Because this process produces a social space where many social values and religious activities emerge.In pre-modern societies, death was accepted as a natural part of life, whereas in modern society, death was challenged and removed from life. Hospitals became a center of struggle against death, away from being a place of healing.  Now people go to the hospital not to be healed, but to die.  In modern society, death is denied, considered taboo and medicalized.  Therefore, death is considered as a technical phenomenon.Death is a process that strengthens collective bonds within the framework of many social practices.  Everyone wants their death to come true good way.  A good death is to die in peace.  A good death is to die in one's own bed with loved ones, after a long life, in a spiritually strong atmosphere where debts and obligations are fulfilled, arguments and disputes are resolved.The study is a qualitative research.  This study was conducted to understand the deathbed process based on the observations and experiences of fifteen religious officials working in rural areas in Bingöl province.  As a result of the research;  it is a good death to die at home in their own bed, people who are expected to die on their deathbed want to die peacefully, therefore they want to say goodbye to many people in order not to leave unresolved problems to those who are left behind before they die, many people want to return to their hometowns to die and be buried together with their relatives. It has been determined that the visits made mean that social support and the life lived are valued, and that the death process has an informal education quality for those who witnessed the experience.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yunus BUCUKA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İnsan ve Toplum Bilimleri Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/itobiad/issue/72362/1118103
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2434174
