Makale Başlığı: A glance at Nazım Hikmet Ran through Michel Foucault’s body concept
Özet: This study aims to utilize the triangular relationship of body, subject, and power, proposed by the French philosopher and social theorist Michel Foucault, and examine the works of renowned Turkish poet, Nazım Hikmet Ran based on his poetry output by utilizing the descriptive method. The period in which Nazım Hikmet Ran was imprisoned will be discussed in this article. Born into a wealthy and well-educated family, Nazım Hikmet skillfully combines the traditional content and style with the novel ones he encountered throughout his life. Although the poet could use the Turkish language perfectly and with all its facilities, it can be claimed that his political views overshadowed his talented works. The hopeful tone in the early years of his imprisonment has altered into despair in his later years, yet, he never stepped back from what he has defended. In this study, the poet Nazım Hikmet Ran is going to be presented as an example of the concepts put forward by Michel Foucault: subject, body, and power. In this triangular relationship, this work aims to focus on the “imprisonment” and the “docile bodies” concepts. Foucault, defending the possessing the body by the power has altered in the last centuries, tells about “the docile bodies” and examines the social structures and the roles of the powers. He discusses critically and brings a different approach to such relations, however it can also be inferred that these bonds can be inevitable. Employing the descriptive analysis method, the poetry he composed throughout his imprisonment will be dealt with in this study. In the analysis part, while discussing the lines, tone, and themes of his poetry, it can be clearly seen that after spending over a decade in the prison, Nazım Hikmet started to lose the hope he had in the early years. The fact that his body was confined to the prison and became a “docile body” is reflected in his poetry and consequently, his art can be demonstrated as a product of the confinement, imprisonment; and docile body which is tried to be standardized, as proposed by Foucault. In the Analysis and Appendix parts of the study, the outcome of the poet’s feelings throughout the years can be inferred from his poetry.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1190373
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2713526
