Makale Başlığı: Energy Efficiency Analysis with The Design Creator Program Of An Educational Structure
Özet: Energy is one of the important resources in the development of the economy and society. Depending on this development, the need for energy is increasing day by day. For this reason, concepts such as energy conservation, use of renewable energy resources, and energy efficient design should be integrated into projects in the process of future planning. Energy-efficient design or energy-efficient improvement methods in buildings play an important role in solving problems arising from energy needs and developing sustainable design. The purpose of energy efficient design is to provide the indoor conditions required with minimum energy consumption in outdoor conditions of the buildings. For this reason, the design of the outer shell-facade system is an important factor in the building. The facade system chosen as the subject of the study; They are double skin facade systems consisting of two glass curtain wall panels and the air gap between them. Within the scope of the study, energy efficiency analysis was performed on the façade system of the faculty building designed for common use in Konya Necmettin Erbakan University Köyceğiz Campus. In this context, it is aimed to compare the energy efficiency of the single skin facade system used in the building and the double skin facade systems, which are proposed for improvement, in terms of thermal comfort level. For this purpose, Design Builder simulation program, which is a computer modeling and simulation program, was used. First of all, the heating energy load was calculated by modeling the current state of the building. Then, a double-skinned facade system was created by adding a glass layer to the appropriate facades of the building. When the building is analyzed in two different ways with the single-skin facade system and the double-skin facade system, which is an improvement proposal, for the periods when there is a need for heating, it has been determined that the double-skin facade system is more efficient in terms of thermal comfort level in terms of energy efficiency in terms of heating load. In line with the results obtained, it is recommended to implement double skin facade systems in terms of energy efficiency in buildings located in a moderate-dry climate region such as Konya Province and with high annual energy consumption.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hanife Büşra KİRİŞCİ', 'Hatice Derya ARSLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Ege Eğitim Teknolojileri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/eetd/issue/70271/825412
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1395291
