Makale Başlığı: BLUE ECONOMY: AN ANALYSIS OF TURKEY'S COMPARISON WITH THE UNITED STATES, CHINA, GREECE AND BANGLADESH
Özet: Today, the desire to create a sustainable economy that protects nature, which is on the agenda of all countries of the world under the leadership of the United Nations, has led to the emergence of the concept of a Blue Economy. The economic order of the sustainability of the seas and oceans, which comprises three quarters of the world, is called the Blue Economy. The Blue Economy has a wide range of sectors such as fishing and aquaculture, coastal and yacht tourism, maritime transport, shipbuilding industry, deep-sea mining, biotechnology. In this study, the position of Turkey in the field of Blue Economy was tried to be analyzed by comparing the countries selected according to certain criteria (USA, China, Bangladesh and Greece) with Turkey. The data obtained using the archive-document scanning technique, one of the qualitative research techniques, was explained with descriptive analysis, and then the study was carried out by content analysis. The data for the blue economy are examined in a wider context, as a result of Turkey's shipbuilding industry, maritime transport, coastal tourism and trade fleet is in relatively good condition, although compared to other countries in the world such as China, this area is quite far from the data observed for a strong country. It can be stated that Greece, Turkey's neighbor, is in a better position compared to Turkey due to the fact that it holds the leadership of the merchant fleet in the world. Bangladesh has more biodiversity than Turkey due to its border with the Indian Ocean. As a result, Turkey has world leadership in any sector despite the fact that it varies from sector to sector compared to the related countries. This situation shows the need for Turkey to invest more in the field of the Blue Economy.
Yazar isimleri: ['Görkem YILDIRIM']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: İşletme Ekonomi ve Yönetim Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/baybem/issue/71263/1127254
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2471796
