Makale Başlığı: FINANCIAL RESOURCE MODELS IN TURKISH URBAN TRANSFORMATION PROJECTS AND THE RESEARCH FOR ANKARA EXAMPLE
Özet: In this study, the Urban Transformation issue has been researched with the necessary financial resource models, the problems experienced and the experiences in terms of the urban transformation projects implemented in our country, their economic dimensions and the applicability of the economic method in the Ankara example have been emphasized, and the economic models that should be done before the urban transformation and the public incentives, aids. and its applications are discussed. It deals with the urban transformation phenomenon in Turkey within the framework of changes and dynamics in structural, contextual, economic and practical approaches and tries to develop an approach that can shed light on future transformation applications. Due to globalization and many related variables, Ankara is in a rapid urban transformation and development. Especially all the issues concerning the housing market and the construction sector primarily affect the urban transformation of Ankara. New regulations made in recent years support and encourage the urban transformation process in housing. This urban transformation has affected different neighborhoods in various ways, depending on the neighborhood characteristics, land characteristics and the socio-economic structure of the residents. For this reason, there are different practices related to housing in many districts.The projects that will be produced by considering the development of human, natural structure and construction economy of the Urban Transformation phenomenon, which has a multi-dimensional and dimensional content, should be evaluated by considering the dimensions of Urban transformation, urban transformation in Turkey, and urban transformation economy. The economic analysis that should be done before the urban transformation and the public incentive and cooperation model, urban transformation methods, the economic and financial problems in urban transformation should determine the economic potential of the country-wide urban transformation in the research method, considering the expectations of the sector representatives in the field and their contributions to the planning, they should focus on the central government and local governments. must reveal its role.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammed Ali GÜLEÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Bilgi Ekonomisi ve Yönetimi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/beyder/issue/70500/1130309
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2484709
