Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of clinical and therapeutic characteristics of patients with anaphylaxis at the pediatric emergency department
Özet: Aim: Anaphylaxis is a severe, life-threatening, and multisystemic allergic reaction that develops suddenly after exposure to an allergen. Successful management of anaphylaxis includes rapid recognition of anaphylaxis and immediate treatment with epinephrine. Emergency departments are vital in the management of anaphylaxis. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the demographic, clinical and laboratory characteristics of patients with anaphylaxis who presented to the pediatric emergency department of a tertiary training and research hospital.Materials and Methods: Clinical and laboratory data of patients who presented to the Pediatric Emergency Department of Ankara Pediatrics, Hematology and Oncology Training and Research Hospital within a five-year period (2014-2019) were retrieved retrospectively via hospital records. Triggers of anaphylaxis, administration of epinephrine, prescription rate of epinephrine autoinjectors, clinical findings, hospitalization rates and length of hospital or emergency department stay were evaluated.Results: Among the 40 patients enrolled, 25 (62.5%) were male, and the mean age was 9.9±6.2 years. 33 patients had probable exposure to an allergen. The most common (13 patients) probable allergen was foods. Epinephrine had been administered to all patients. At the time of presentation, 36 patients had cutaneous-mucosa, 26 had respiratory, 22 had gastrointestinal and four had cardiovascular involvement. History of allergy to foods, drugs, bee venom, and inhalants (pollen and mold) was present in six, five, two an one patient, respectively. Seven patients with previous history of anaphylaxis had epinephrine autoinjectors, five of whom had used their autoinjectors prior to presentation. Mean length of hospital stay was 25.5±5.9 hours, and no biphasic reactions were observed. 29 patients were prescribed an epinephrine autoinjector upon discharge.Conclusion: Foods are the most common triggers of anaphylaxis in children. At emergency departments, it is very important to administer epinephrine as the first-line treatment and prescribe epinephrine autoinjector upon discharge.
Yazar isimleri: ['Leman AKCAN YILDIZ', 'Meltem ÇETİN', 'Emine DİBEK MISIRLIOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye Çocuk Hastalıkları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tchd/issue/73531/992204
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1961425
