Makale Başlığı: Placental Traits, and Plasma Concentration and Placental mRNA Expression of IGF-I in Bafra Sheep Breed with Different Birth Type
Özet: Insulin-like growth factors (IGF) promote follicle development, ovulation, and embryonic development and affect placental and fetal growth and development in many mammalian species. Therefore, this study aims to determine the relationship between birth type, plasma concentration, and placental mRNA expression of IGF-I in Bafra ewes. A total of 30 ewes with single (n=15) or twin (n=15) gestation and at least 2 offspring were used as experimental animals. Before mating, blood samples were collected from the jugular vena of all ewes. Following lambing, birth type, live weight, and sex of lambs and placental traits have been recorded. A commercial ELISA kit was used to measure plasma IGF-I concentration levels. IGF-I gene expression level has been determined by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction. No difference was observed between single and twinbearing sheep in terms of placental weight and various cotyledon characteristics in the study. In contrast, total cotyledon weights were lower in singleton gestation those in twins (P<0.05). Similarly, the total and medium cotyledon number and cotyledon efficiency of Bafra ewes with single deliveries were lower than Bafra sheep with twin births (P<0.05). Although the birth type had no affect on both placental gene expression level and plasma concentration of IGF-I, sheep that gave birth to twins exhibited 0.908 times more gene expression than those which gave single births. The study results showed that birth type did not affect plasma IGF-I concentration and placental IGF-I gene expression level in Bafra sheep breed but changed placental characteristics.
Yazar isimleri: ['Uğur ŞEN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Anadolu Tarım Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/omuanajas/issue/70533/1024849
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2086237
