Makale Başlığı: Analysıs Of Factors Affectıng Teachers 'E-Learnıng Preparatıon Levels Wıth Random Forest Algorıthm
Özet: In this study, the level of e-learning readiness of teachers who continue their education activities with online education during the Covid-19 pandemic process and the factors affecting this level were examined. The research was planned and carried out with the scanning model, one of the quantitative research methods. The research was conducted on 2411 teachers working in schools affiliated to the Directorate of National Education in Van for the 2020-2021 academic year. The data of the study were collected by “E-learning Readiness Scale” and “Lifelong Learning Scale”.  In the research, factors affecting e-learning readiness were modeled with Random Forests Algorithm, one of the data mining methods. Within the scope of the research, two-stage clustering analysis and random forest algorithm that divide the heterogeneous sample into homogeneous subsets were used. Teachers’ e-learning readiness levels are the dependent variable and 12 variables that are thought to have a theoretical relationship with e-learning readiness are included in the model as independent variables. As a result of the analyzes carried out with the Random Forests method, it was determined that the variable that had the most impact on teachers’ e-learning readiness was lifelong learning. Other variables that affect the readiness of e-learning are, respectively, the branch, age, average daily internet usage time, years of duty, type of institution, the device most used in internet access, gender, education level, place of residence of the institution, previously in-service information technologies. It was seen whether he participated in the training or not and had a job title.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Selim PARLAK', 'Murat KAYRİ']
Yayın Yılı: 10 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Van Yüzüncü Yıl Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yyuefd/issue/73718/1117068
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2429439
