Makale Başlığı: Analysis of acoustic sensor placement for PD location in power transformer
Özet: Partial discharge  PD  is an abnormal activity that occurs in high-voltage components, such as power cables,  switchgear, machines, and power transformers. Such activity needs to be diagnosed for the equipment to last longer as  PD could harm the insulation and potentially lead to asset destruction from time to time. Moving one or more externally  mounted acoustic sensors to different locations on the transformer tank is commonly used in order to detect and locate  PD signal occurring in the power transformer. However, this procedure may lead to less accuracy in PD identification.  Therefore, this research paper presents an analysis of acoustic sensor placement based on time of arrival  TOA  technique  for PD location in a power transformer. The detection and location can be determined by permanently installing the  acoustic sensor to provide valuable data in an early stage of occurrence for online condition PD monitoring. Several  methods are available for the detection of PD signal, whereby one of the best choices is via acoustic emission  AE .  PD creates an ultrasonic signal used for PD detection. This paper proposes the possible placement of AE sensors to  be mounted on the power transformer wall based on ideal and static PD signals. The sensors were placed in order to  capture the PD signal without any disturbance signal from inside or outside the tank. The time for the signal for the first  approach for each sensor is recorded to estimate the PD location using the TOA technique. A comparison between the  least square method  LSM  and Gauss--Jordan elimination  GJE  for the TOA technique was analyzed to differentiate  the resulting performance. This research utilized three different PD sources to apply the performance analysis on PD  locations, while five cases were proposed to represent the five different placements of four sensors for the analysis. This  research ultimately suggests that sensors be placed and randomly mounted on the four sides of the transformer tank,  with one sensor allocated to one side. Among all five cases, Case 1 and Case 5 yielded a displacement error  DE  less  than others, while between these two cases, Case 5 gave the lowest DE. The findings were recorded based on LSM and  GJE methods used to differentiate the resulting performance.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Mayıs 2020
Dergi ismi: Turkish Journal of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tbtkelektrik/issue/54388/739695
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1110701
