Makale Başlığı: Is the Commercial Film of Atasay: “Tak Sana Yakışanı / Wear What Suits You” a Femvertising or Reproduction of Inequalities?
Özet: In recent commercial films, it has been seen that the messages regarding women's liberation, empowerment, stereotyped gender judgments and gender equality are conveyed within the framework of Femvertising (women-oriented advertising). There are female representations that fall outside of these patterns rather than the female representation that interiorized stereotyped gender roles within the framework of the current trend. In this study, the first commercial film of “Tak Sana Yakışanı” (Wear what Suits You) campaign series can be qualified within the framework of the advertising flow called Femvertising, of Atasay a jewelery company, was analyzed using the methodology of Roland Barthes's Mythology. In accordance with Stuart Hall's Representation Theory, the findings were interpreted based on the concepts of "ideology", "power" and "power relations". The analyses and evaluations showed that there are positive highlights supporting gender equality. However, when the commercial film was questioned in depth at the level of mythical analysis, it was found that the advertisement was presented with the image of “strong and free woman”, predominantly referring to luxury consumption. In this regard, the most important implication of the study is that presenting an “empowerment strategy” for women through such representations may have the potential to make the inequalities arising from class differences among women more visible at the social level. As a result, there is a possibility of consumption-centered idealization of a certain form of "femininity" and the exclusion of other "femininities" that cannot consume in a way. The unique contribution of this study is its comprehensive evaluation of the reproduction of class-based asymmetric power relations as well as gender-based asymmetric power relations in the social plane.
Yazar isimleri: ['Tuğba METİN AÇER']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Hacettepe Üniversitesi Edebiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/huefd/issue/67946/779215
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1235539
