Makale Başlığı: Late Roman C Ware From Soli Pompeipolis
Özet: In this research, Late Roman C Ware found in Soli Pompeiopolis, an important harbor city of the Rough Cilicia Region, was studied. Late Roman C Ware (Phocean Red Slip Ware) are the most numerous groups of pottery among findings unearthed during the systematic excavations in the city, at Soli Mound, the Colonnaded Street and necropolis between 1999 and 2009. The Colonnaded Street is the sector where these sherds were intensely present. 261 sherds that belong to this group were detected. 58 of these are included in the catalogue. 7 forms of the group are detected. A group of decorated floor sherds that cannot be classified are evaluated according to their decorative characteristics. Hayes’s typological classification is referred to establish the repertoire of the present forms. The detected forms consist of plates and bowls used for serving purposes. The earliest example of the group is Soli Pompeiopolis Form 1 (Hayes Form 1A) dated back to the late 4th and early 5th century AD. Soli Pompeiopolis Form 2 (Hayes Form 2A), subtypes of Soli Pompeiopolis Form 3 (Hayes Form 3A, B, C, D) and Soli Pompeiopolis Form 4 (Hayes Form 5A) are the forms dated back to the 5th century AD. The subtypes of Soli Pompeiopolis Form 3 (Hayes Form 3E) and Soli Pompeiopolis Form 6 (Hayes Form 8) are dated back to the end of the 5th century AD and early 6th century AD. By the 6th century CE, subtypes of Soli Pompeiopolis Form 3 (Hayes Form 3F, H), Soli Pompeiopolis Form 4 (Hayes Form 5B) and Soli Pompeiopolis Form 5 (Hayes Form 6) were present. The period that the group intensely present is between the first half of the 5th century AD and the end of the 6th century AD. The latest examples are Soli Pompeiopolis Form 7 (Hayes Form 10C) dated back to the first half of the 7th century AD. The examples of Hayes Form 10A evaluated in this form again dated back to the late 6th AD and early 7th century AD. By the 7th century AD, intensity of the group decreased by half in the market of Soli Pompeiopolis. A similar trend is also visible for the African Red Slip Ware and Late Roman D Ware. The reason behind this adverse situation should be the Arab raids that affected the region in the 7th century AD.
Yazar isimleri: ['Volkan YILDIZ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Arkeoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/egearkeoloji/issue/73269/1119045
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2438029
