Makale Başlığı: Plant Sociology and Ecology of the Area Between Yayladağı,  Kışlak (Hatay) and the Syrian Border
Özet: The study area is located within the borders of Yayladağı district of Hatay province of the Mediterranean region. Yayladağı is included in the Mediterranean floristic region in terms of plant geography and in the C6 square according to Davis' grid system. This study, which covers the plant sociology and vegetation ecology of the southernmost point of Turkey, was carried out with the aim of determination, preservation and sustainable management of the area's biological diversity, ecosystem diversity and genetic resources. As a result of the field studies, according to the classical Braun-Blanquet (1932) method, 11 plant associations, 10 of which are new to thescientific community, were determined belonging to frigana, maquis and forest vegetation types. According to upper syntaxonomic evaluation, 10 of the associations (Spartio-Quercetum cocciferae ass. nova, Genisto-Juniperetum oxycedri ass. nova, Querco-Lauretum nobilis ass. nova, Asperulo-Quercetum cocciferae ass. nova, Pistacio-Quercetum cocciferae ass. nova, Querco-Cerridetum siliquastri ass. nova, Osyris-Gonocytisus pterocladus ass. nova, Phillyreo-Pinetum brutiae Özyiğit ve ark. (2015), Erico-Pinetum brutiae ass. nova, Myrto-Pinetum brutiae ass. nova) were evaluated under the Quercion calliprini Zohary (1962) alliance, Pistacio- Rhamnetalia alaterni Braun-Blanquet (1947) ordo and Quercetalia ilicis Braun-Blanquet (1947) class, while one association was (Cisto-Calycotometum villosae ass. nova) under Cistion orientale Oberd  (1954) alliance, Cisto-Micromerietalia Oberd  (1954) ordo and Cisto-Micromerietea Oberd  (1954) class. Relationships between associations and plant-climate-soil were also evaluated ecologically. The human-induced adverse effects on the natural plant associations in the research area and its surroundings were determined and solutions for the protection of vegetation are presented.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 24 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: ANADOLU Ege Tarımsal Araştırma Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/anadolu/issue/70384/1129735
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2482231
