Makale Başlığı: THE DYNAMICS OF MIGRANT SETTLEMENT IN ISTANBUL: THE CASE OF BEYOĞLU
Özet: Beyoğlu is one of the central districts of Istanbul with the most mobile population. The dynamics of settlement and mobility of increasingly diverse and larger number number of migrants , in the district, are shaped in parallel with the contingencies created by housing and working opportunities. The level of access to urban rights and services varies according to migrants' status, migration networks and class position.Aims: This study aims to contribute to local social policies and practices targeting n migrants with an original  qualitative data-based analysis of the settlement dynamics of different migrant groups in space and their needs, problems and expectations, based on the case of the Beyoğlu district.Methodology: The field research, based on qualitative data collection techniques, is based on six focus group meetings with five migrant groups in the district and interviews with 19 people, including experts and representatives of public institutions. The findings were analyzed by the research team in NVİVO a qualitative data analysis software.Findings: While Syrians under temporary protection status constitute the largest migrant group in Beyoğlu, there is a large irregular and unregistered migrant population in the district. The most important determinants of the migrant presence in the district are its socio-spatial characteristics. The housing stock, which has been falling into disrepair for decades, has created a space where irregular or poor migrants can find shelter. However, the dwellings often do not meet decent housing conditions. The indifference of public institutions towards the socio-spatial conditions in some neighborhoods also facilitates the settlement of undocumented and irregular migrants in the district. The catering  and accommodation sectors concentrated in Beyoğlu and the continued existence of the small manufacturing sector provide migrants with opportunities for informal employment. The fact that many of the migrants in Beyoğlu are unregistered or irregular negatively affects their access to basic rights such as health services and education, as well as to labor markets. Children of unregistered and irregular migrants do not have access to formal education. Child labor is also prevalent among children of unregistered Syrians. Migrants' inadequate access to basic health care, prevention and treatment of communicable diseases also poses a public health risk. Women and children migrants living in poor and crowded housing have almost no socializing spaces other than a few parks in the neighborhood.Originality: The identification of the socio-spatial patterns of settlement of migrants and the analysis of the differences and similarities between the settlement of different migrant groups in Beyoğlu make an original contribution to migration studies.
Yazar isimleri: ['Esra KAYA ERDOĞAN', 'Hatice KURTULUŞ', 'Deniz YÜKSEKER']
Yayın Yılı: 11 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: İstanbul Ticaret Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iticusbe/issue/72897/1179133
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2666783
