Makale Başlığı: THE APPLICATION OF SWARA BASED COPRAS AND OCRA METHODS TO SUPPLIER SELECTION PROBLEM
Özet: The variability in customer demands necessitates careful monitoring of production processes. At this point, supplier selection, which is the first and most important stage of production, gains importance. However, the supplier selection problem is affected by many criteria with different weights depending on the production area. In addition, in today's intense competition, such problems are too important to be left to the intuition of the parties. In this case, multi-criteria decision making techniques, which have provided significant convenience for decision makers in recent years, are very useful.In this context, the most suitable one among 5 supplier candidates was selected in the study. As a result of the literature research, the criteria affecting the problem; C1-delivery time (days), C2-product unit price (TL), C3-product defect rate (/100 shipments), C4-corporate structure (1-9), C5-economic strength (1-9), C6- logistics location (km.), C7-product quality (1-9) and C8-flexibility (1-9) and necessary information for alternatives were collected. Thus, the criteria in the initial matrix created were weighted with the SWARA technique. Finally, alternative suppliers were listed using COPRAS and OCRA methods and the most suitable supplier was selected.In the study, the criteria were weighted with the SWARA technique based on three different expert opinions, and the accuracy of the results was confirmed by using the COPRAS and OCRA techniques together, and the reliability of the methods in terms of the results they produced was demonstrated. As a result, it has been determined that the methods used in ranking the alternatives are in harmony with each other and the results are reliable.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayhan DEMİRCİ']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Ege Stratejik Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/esam/issue/71448/1120887
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2445468
