Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Turkish TV Series in Azerbaijan on the Axis of “Soft Power” Concept
Özet: The spread of Turkish TV series to more than 140 countries in the world in recent years raises the question of whether these TV series constitute a "Soft Power" for Turkey. In this context, the main problem of the study is whether Turkish TV series work as a "Soft Power" tool in Azerbaijan. For this purpose, a survey was conducted with 105 university students. In the survey conducted, after the Turkish TV series were banned from being broadcast in Turkish on Azerbaijani television, the viewing rates were examined, the comparison of the viewing rates of the TV series produced locally by Azerbaijan, and the perception of Turkey left on the audience by the TV series. When we look at the results of the survey, it was determined that 77 people watched TV series and 27 people did not. When asked about which TV series they watch, it is seen that all TV viewers watch Turkish TV series, while only 24 people watch Azerbaijani TV series. Also, it was determined that 97 percent of the TV series audience knew Turkish. When we look at the attitude towards Turks after watching Turkish TV series, the results show that 50 percent of the university students who watch TV series have a positive perspective towards Turks, 40 percent do not reach a certain judgment, and 11 percent have a negative perspective. When the participants were asked about the effects of the TV series they watched, they showed that they could not reach a conclusion about 40 percent, that they had a negative effect of 33 percent and a positive effect of 25 percent. When we look at the main problem of the study, it is seen that Turkish TV series can be a successful "soft power" in Azerbaijan in linguistic terms, but the subjects they cover are not very successful in terms of being beneficial to the society and arousing the desire to go to Turkey.
Yazar isimleri: ['Farrukh HASANOV']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye Film Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/film/issue/70713/1106201
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2385401
