Makale Başlığı: Attitude of Teachers and Prospective Teachers Toward The Value of Justice in Social Studies Course
Özet: The main purpose of this study is to determine the attitudes of teachers who teach social studies courses in primary and secondary schools and prospective teachers who will teach them in the future. In this study, the general survey model and the relational survey model were used together. The study group of this research consists of classroom teachers and social studies teachers working in primary and secondary schools in the city center of Van in the 2019-2020 academic year, and students of classroom teaching and social studies teaching at Van Yüzüncü Yıl University, Faculty of Education. Convenience sampling method was used to determine the sample group. The data of the study were collected by using “Personal Information Form” and “Justice Attitude Scale” developed by the researcher. Parametric tests were used in the analysis of data collected with scale forms. It is seen that teachers and prospective teachers prefer the view that "I find the subjects related to justice boring" at least. This shows that the participants are interested in the value of justice. It was determined that the teachers had a more positive attitude about the value of justice with a significant difference compared to the prospective teachers. It was determined that the attitudes of teachers and prospective teachers towards the value of justice differed significantly according to the type of book they read. Based on the fact that values can be learned by experiencing and feeling, educational methods such as drama, role playing, games, research and simulation that make learners active and entertaining can be emphasized. In addition, they can be provided to review publications such as books and magazines with the theme of justice.
Yazar isimleri: ['Serdar YEŞİL', 'Gürol ZIRHLIOĞLU', 'Ahmet YAYLA']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Temel Eğitim
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/temelegitim/issue/69985/1082993
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2290652
