Makale Başlığı: Evaluation Of Online Education From The Perspective Of Teachers During The Covid-19 Pandemic Process
Özet: The purpose of this research is to analyze the online education applied in Turkey during the Covid-19 Pandemic from the perspective of the teachers. The research, which was designed in the descriptive survey model, was carried out on a total of 734 teachers. The conclusions reached based on the analysis of the data collected by the research questionnaire are as follows: According to most of the teachers participating in the research, the Covid-19 Pandemic process is a lost period in education in general. According to half of the participating teachers, the ineffectiveness of online education during the pandemic is due to the extraordinary conditions in this process. According to the teachers, online education is ineffective in psychomotor and social learning; It is partially effective in affective and cognitive learning. According to the teachers, the fact that students do not have enough self-learning, self-control and willpower characteristics are important factors in the ineffectiveness of online education during the pandemic process. In the same regard, the fact that teachers do not have enough cognitive skills with online pedagogy are other factors. According to teachers, the most important reason for the ineffectiveness of online education during the pandemic process is internet access problems. This was followed by the inadequacy of the existing teaching programs for distance education, the unpreparedness of the family and the inadequacies in the EBA system. In the research, it has been evaluated that Turkey is not yet fully ready for virtual and digital education ecosystems such as online education, both in terms of extraordinary conditions and adaptation to the Information Age.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşenur KULOĞLU', 'Burhan AKPINAR']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Fırat Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/firatsbed/issue/72636/1084653
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2297345
