Makale Başlığı: Periodic analysis of forest fire numbers and sunspot numbers in Türkiye
Özet: The aim of this study is to examine the periodic structures of forest fire numbers in Türkiye and sunspot numbers. The main purpose of this study is to investigate the variability of forest fire numbers in Turkey and sunspot numbers using continuous wavelet transforms and global spectra method. The change of sunspots observed in the photosphere layer of the sun is one of its important activities affecting the world. The sunspot number is often used to show solar activity. Wavelet analysis reveals the frequency components of signals such as the Fourier transform yet wavelet transform is actually a advanced and well planned version of Fourier transform. Wavelet transform techniques approach has been applied to the periodic analysis of the number of forest fires and sunspot numbers in Turkey. In this context, in the period from 1937 to the end of 2020, the records of the current fire numbers of the General Directorate of Forestry (OMG) and the sunspots numbers for the same period have been evaluated. The periodic structure of the existing 84-year forest fire numbers data and the sunspot numbers data in the same period are analyzed using Continuous Wavelet transform (SDD) and Global Wavelet Spectrum (GDS) techniques. While the dominant periodic component for forest fire numbers was 6.60 years, 10.67 years periodic component is determined for sunspot numbers. Other long-year periodic components of both variables have also been determined. As a result of this study, it has been determined that the periodic structures of the number of forest fires and the number of sunspots in Türkiye are very different from each other.
Yazar isimleri: ['Taner Mustafa CENGİZ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: European Journal of Engineering and Applied Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ejeas/issue/71559/1137100
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2512443
