Makale Başlığı: A Systematic Review in Balloon Catheter Application in Vaginal Birth After Cesarean
Özet: Aim: To investigate and review retrospective and prospective randomized controlled trials about balloon catheter application for mechanical dilatation in vaginal birth after caesarian in studies published between 2011-2021 and to systematically examine the data. Instrument and Methods: Pubmed database was used and 116 randomized controlled trials were reached. All of the studies were examined and 10 studies that met the inclusion criteria were included in the review. The studies that were reached were systematised in regards to their methods and findings.Findings: When the studies were examined, it was seen that a single-balloon catheter was mostly used for mechanical dilation in vaginal delivery after cesarean section and the balloon fluid volume was 30-50 ml on average. It was determined that there was an increase in the cervical Bishop Score in the first 24 hours with the use of  foley balloon catheter, and the vaginal delivery rate was 57% and the cesarean delivery rate was 43%. It has been stated that low-dose oxytocin support may be needed for the continuation of the action after cervical ripening was achieved. Compared to medical induction, no increased maternal and fetal complications were reported.Conclusion: Foley-balloon catheter is a safe and effective method for induction of vaginal birth after cesarean section. Clinicians should be encouraged to expand the use of foley-balloon catheters to reduce the inreasing rate of caesarean delivery. Cervix must be evaluated in the choice of catheter types.Key words: Vaginal birth after cesarean, previous cesarean, balloon catheter, foley, cervical ripening.
Yazar isimleri: ['Dilek Sinem ULUDAĞ', 'Nuran AYDIN ATEŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Jinekoloji-Obstetrik ve Neonatoloji Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jgon/issue/72893/962948
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1861665
