Makale Başlığı: EXAMINING THE OPINIONS OF THE MANAGERS IN BEAUTY CENTERS ON GREEN PROMOTION IN TERMS OF DEMOGRAPHIC VARIABLES: SIVAS EXAMPLE
Özet: Purpose- With the increasing environmental pollution and chemicals entering human life in recent years, people's concerns about life andhealth are increasing. As consumer awareness about the environment and health increases, people tend towards green products. From pastto present, people have benefited from plants to look beautiful and to treat health problems. Some businesses that are aware of their socialresponsibility in the cosmetics sector and that produce, turn to natural products in production in order to reduce the effects of chemicalsused on human life. In this way, businesses both protect human health and strengthen their sectoral images in the beauty market. By adoptingthe concept of green products, businesses fulfill their responsibilities to protect the environment while meeting the demands of theircustomers. The aim of this study is to examine the views of beauty center managers about green promotion activities in terms of demographiccharacteristics.Methodology- The universe of the study consists of 51 beauty center managers in Sivas. A survey study was conducted to understandwhether there is a difference in green promotion activities of beauty center managers within the scope of demographic variables. T test andOne-Way ANOVA test were applied to determine whether the evaluations of beauty center managers for green promotion differ in terms ofdemographic characteristics.Findings- Considering the findings obtained as a result of the study, no significant difference was found in the managers' views on greenpromotion in terms of demographic variables. It is understood that beauty center managers mostly agree with the statements about greenpromotion.Conclusion- When the results of the study are evaluated, it is concluded that women are more sensitive in terms of gender and singles aremore sensitive in terms of marital status. It has been concluded that there is no statistical difference in terms of demographic characteristicsin the attitudes and behaviors of managers regarding green promotion.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: PressAcademia Procedia
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/pap/issue/71641/1152779
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2571193
