Makale Başlığı: Changes of Flavor Volatile Compounds on Different Storage Conditions of ANET-30 Peach Variety
Özet: This study was carried out to determine the changes in aroma components during storage of ANET 30 peach variety fruits produced in private sector (Anadolu Etap-Çanakkale) orchards. Sampled fruits were stored under 0±1°C temperature and 90±5% relative humidity ± for 60 days and the changes in aroma components were measured at 20-day intervals which the treatments were control, modified atmosphere packaging (MAP) in Xtend® bags, 1-Methylcyclopropane (1-MCP) applied at a dose of 625 ppb after harvest and 1-MCP + MAP. According to results obtained; the most important aroma component was determined as total aldehydes, which were 81.33% on average at the beginning of storage, decreased to 64.91% during storage in ANET 30 fruits. However, the degree of this decrease differed according to the treatments. Apart from aldehydes, lactones, alcohols, esters, terpenes and other aroma compounds were detected and their changes during storage varied. As the storage period increased, significant increases were detected in terpenes, lactones and esters, and a partial increase in alcohols, and a decrease in hexenes was detected among the aroma components other than these. The increase in lactones giving the peach flavor reached 150% after 60 days of storage. As the maturity progressed, an increase in the compounds that gave the original aroma and a decrease in aldehydes were detected. Among these main aroma components, the number of compounds, which was 13 at the beginning of the storage, increased during the storage period and reached 19-30 according to the storage treatments. Storage treatments were delayed all flavor components changes during storage.
Yazar isimleri: ['Prof. Dr. Kenan KAYNAŞ', 'Mehmet Ali GÜNDOĞDU']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Meyve Bilimi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/meyve/issue/71577/1099930
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2359595
