Makale Başlığı: The Relatıons Between Vocatıonal School Students' Job Fındıng Concerns, Entrepreneurshıp Features And General Grade Averages
Özet: In this study, the relationships between vocational school students' job anxiety, entrepreneurial characteristics and GPA were investigated. The data of this research, which was carried out according to the relational screening method, were obtained by applying the scales of job finding anxieties and entrepreneurship for university students. The sample of the research is 385 university students selected from Afyon Kocatepe University Afyon Vocational School by easy sampling. As a result of the research, it was seen that the anxiety of finding a job was in a significant, negative and weak relationship with the entrepreneurship scores. As a result of the regression analysis performed in the research to better interpret this relationship, it was seen that job anxiety explains approximately one percent of the variance of entrepreneurship scores. In addition, as the concerns of finding a job increase, the entrepreneurial characteristics are negatively affected, that is, they decrease. However, as a result of the analysis, there is no mediation effect for gender, class and age variables. High job anxiety of students is an important problem. This concern is not just a problem with economic dimensions. It will also have negative social and social consequences. For this reason, it is necessary to reduce the problems in the transition from formal education to business life and facilitate this transition. It is necessary to make legal arrangements that increase youth employment, to support young entrepreneurs, to increase the institutions and organizations that support these entrepreneurs and to introduce them to the society.
Yazar isimleri: ['Murat TUNCER', 'Ramazan TANAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 22 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Journal of Educational Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/turkjes/issue/73134/1085568
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2300927
