Makale Başlığı: Aristocratic Kurdish Families: The Gulpinars
Özet: The recognition of the family begins with the birth of their great grandfather, Sheikh Halid, in 1862 in the Altunakar (Altogar) Village of the Çınar district of Diyarbakır. Sheikh Khalid belongs to an aristocratic family and is also a Sufi person. He has been involved in guidance activities in Gülpınar Village of Siverek district and at the same time he grew up in a versatile family. His tomb is in Gülpınar Village of Siverek district of Şanlıurfa province. His son, Sheikh Eyüp, served the religion of Islam as a scholar in the last period of the Ottoman Empire and from the establishment of the republic. He was executed because he participated in the Sheikh Said Rebellion, which started later, from Siverek. The family took the surname Gülpınar with the Surname Law enacted in 1934. Gulpinars are from aristocratic Kurdish families, although they are agha and sheikh. For the first time since 1977, they wanted to continue the dominance they had built in the religious arena in the political arena, and this increased the political activity of the family. For this reason, one of his grandchildren Eyüp Cenap Gülpınar was elected as Şanlıurfa deputy from the Motherland Party between 1987-2002 and from the Justice and Development Party between 2007-2011. Since this date, his son Mehmet Kasım Gülpınar has been elected as a deputy from the same province and continues to carry out this duty. The article, which was written by applying the qualitative research method, is about why the Gülpınar family, who is influential in the religious and social fields, preferred politics since 1977. For this, the works related to the subject were examined and face-to-face interviews were conducted with people who knew the family, along with the research in the district of Siverek.
Yazar isimleri: ['İsmail KIRAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: The Journal of Mesopotamian Studies
Yayın sayfa url: http://jms.artuklu.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/72795/1152221
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2569287
