Makale Başlığı: THE EFFECT OF ETHICS ON CORPORATE REPUTATION IN THE CONTEXT OF PUBLIC RELATIONS: THE CASE OF ISTANBUL METROPOLITAN MUNICIPALITY
Özet: Ethical rules come to the fore among the issues that need to be taken into account in order to strengthen the corporate reputation of municipalities. In terms of its effect on corporate reputation, the reflection of ethical understanding in other corporate studies, especially in public relations activities, is among the important factors. Implementing the corporate strategies determined in order to inform the public about the works carried out by the municipalities, ensure effective communication between the institution and the society, and strengthen the corporate image in the field of activity of public relations. In this respect, public relations activities have the characteristics of supporting the corporate reputation of municipalities and contributing to their development. The effect of public relations practices of Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality (IMM) on corporate reputation and the role of ethical rules on this effect constitute the main subject of the study. In this context, the activities carried out by the IMM public relations unit were discussed and the effect of these activities on corporate reputation and the relationship of this effect with ethical rules were examined. In the study, semi-structured in-depth interviews were conducted with ten participants. According to the findings based on the analysis of qualitative data, participant opinions focus on the positive impact of compliance with ethical rules on IMM's corporate reputation. In addition, it is stated that compliance with social values and general moral principles has an impact on corporate reputation. In addition, the results also point to the negative impact of unethical behavior on corporate reputation. Based on the findings, a series of application suggestions are presented to ensure the development and continuity of corporate reputation.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sadık SAYILGANOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 7 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Turkish Online Journal of Design Art and Communication
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tojdac/issue/72513/1141103
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2527664
