Makale Başlığı: Of teachers; Investigation of the Relationship Between Perceptions of School Principals on Chaotic Leadership Roles and Perceptions of Organizational Happiness
Özet: In this study, it was aimed to determine the teachers’ perceptions of school principalsregarding their chaotic leadership roles and their levels of organizational happiness,and to reveal the relationship between these two concepts. The research was carriedout with the relational survey model, one of the quantitative research designs. Theuniverse of the research consists of 5088 teachers working in public schools in Sakaryain the 2021-2022 academic year. The sample of the study consists of 404 teachersworking in 59 schools selected by the stratified sampling method from the universe.Chaotic leadership and organizational happiness scales and a personal informationform developed by the researcher were used to collect data in the research. The analysisof the data was carried out using the SPSS 26.0 program. The t-Test, ANOVA and Tukeytest were used in the analysis of the data. The perceptions of the teachers participatingin the research regarding the chaotic leadership roles of school administrators are atthe level of "I agree very much". Teachers' perceptions of organizational happiness are"Moderately Agree" in the overall scale and in the sub-dimensions of TeachingProfession, Managerial Attitudes and Behaviors, Colleague Relations, WorkingConditions and Classroom Management. On the other hand, in the Positive Personalitysub-dimension, it is at the level of "I Agree Less". It has been found that there is astatistically significant and high level relationship between chaotic leadership andorganizational happiness. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Ümit DOĞAN', 'Mahire ASLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Muğla Sıtkı Koçman Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/muefd/issue/70362/1065319
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2221713
