Makale Başlığı: Zoroaster, His Teaching and Its Reflections on Europe: The Case of Nietzsche
Özet: This work, BC. between 1500 and BC. It deals with the teaching of the Zoroastrian prophet, who is accepted to have lived in the Northern Iran region between 600 BC, and the reflections of this teaching on Europe, in particular Nietzsche. The information about Zoroastrianism and its teaching has reached today through the Avesta, which is considered the sacred work of Zoroastrianism. With the visit of the famous traveler Marco Polo to Iran in 1272, the attention of many western travelers turned to Zoroaster and Avesta. From the 16th to the 18th centuries, many travelers, traders or missionaries visited Iran and included Zoroastrianism in their work. These studies were appreciated in the West and paved the way for Zarathustra and his teaching to be followed with interest in Europe, America and Asia. Zoroastrian and his teaching, which has been the subject of philosophical studies before, has taken place in the works of many writers and philosophers such as P. Beyl and G. Ritter since the 19th century. It is said that Hegel, one of the greatest representatives of German idealism, was interested in Avesta, Dante's Divine Comedy, Goethe's Faust and East-West Divan, Voltaire's Zadig works contain the most beautiful reflections of Zoroastrian myths. It is even claimed that Schopenhauer reconsidered the Avesta and tried to make a new interpretation of Zoroastrianism with Nietzsche's Also Sprach Zarathustra. Zoroaster and his teaching influenced Europe. The study aims to show that Zoroastrian and his teachings were reflected in Europe in many ways in the period up to the age of Nietzsche through certain studies. This study aims to deal with the European reflection of Zoroastrianism in the context of Nietzsche's philosophy and Nietzsche's Zoroastrian character. Nietzsche saw the historical Zoroastrian as the founder of morality shaped around the concepts of 'good' and 'evil'. Nietzsche, who wanted to transcend this morality, turned historical Zoroastrian upside down and used his own Zoroastrian as a spokesperson in the construction of the "Overman" form, which he positioned beyond morality.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşe EROĞLU', 'Mehmet ADLIM']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: RUSUH Uşak Üniversitesi İslami İlimler Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rusuhder/issue/70857/1104563
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2378581
