Makale Başlığı: An Empirical Examination of Universities’ Strategies for Supporting Students with Special Learning Disorder in Developing Countries: A Predictive Model Using Mixed-Methods Research
Özet: Educational statistics have shown a growing number of students with special educational needs (SEN), such as learning disorders accepted into different university programs; empirical evidence indicates that they still face difficulties in adapting to the learning environment and education process. In contrast, little empirical research in developing countries has tested strategies that universities can adopt to support these students. Nevertheless, our preliminary study revealed that many Egyptian universities remain unprepared to deal with disabled students. This study has taken a further significant step in contributing to both theory and practice and helps address some gaps in the current body of literature through: (a) Providing a deeper understanding of students with SEN, explicitly learning disorder in developing countries. (b) Outlining some supportive strategies needed to be addressed by universities to meet the needs of these students before and during their course study. (c) Developing and validating a mathematical model predicting and examining the perceived effectiveness of these strategies. The current study used mixed methods research (MMR) as a methodological research paradigm for gathering, assessing, and mixing both qualitative and quantitative approaches to enhance the integrity of the research finding and comprehensively understand a research phenomenon. The developed questionnaire was pretested, and feedback from the pretest and the panel of experts was used to revise the survey instrument. The reliability of instruments was assessed and showed high using internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha > 0.8). Multiple regression analysis with its associated statistical inference tests was applied. Based on our findings, the study has made a number of important managerial and academic implications. These findings provide valuable guidance for researchers and practitioners, open areas for future research, and add empirical weight to research addressing developing countries.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 13 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: The Eurasia Proceedings of Educational and Social Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: http://www.epess.net/tr/pub/issue/73286/1196824
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2740041
