Makale Başlığı: The Opinions of Austrian Diplomats on the Mosul Issue (1923-1926)
Özet: Austrian archival documents, reflecting the views of Austrian diplomats on the direct and indirect developments regarding the Mosul issue, consist of the articles written by three Austrian ambassadors working in Türkiye, the Soviet Union and Switzerland, addressing their foreign ministers. In their writings, these Austrian diplomats not only included the experiences and views on the Mosul issue, but also tried to reveal the connections of England, France, Italy and Russia on the subject. In the first of five different dated articles consisting of thirty-four archival documents, Prime Minister Rauf Bey himself explained why Türkiye took a step back against Britain in the Mosul issue. In other articles, it is stated how Mosul was left to Iraq by England and its contribution to the creation of a wall between Türkiye and Azerbaijan. In addition, the role played by the Americans in Mosul and why Britain cannot risk a war with Türkiye are explained. In addition, the anxiety caused by Russia in securing the Indian land route and its relationship with Mosul are revealed. Subsequently, while France was on the side of England regarding Mosul, its foresight regarding an important problem that Türkiye still has to grapple with is declared. At the same time, it is revealed how Italy tried to gain an advantage by taking sides with England in the Mosul issue and its relation with its expansionist ambitions towards Türkiye. Finally, it is also mentioned how Italy tried to benefit from the Balkan states in this direction and why it had to take a step back against Türkiye.The aim of our research is to reveal the extent to which the information and analyzes of the Austrian diplomats working in three different countries on the Mosul issue, based on the Austrian archival documents, overlap with the facts.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Atatürk Araştırma Merkezi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aamd/issue/73318/1195880
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2736213
