Makale Başlığı: Prayer Behavıors of Adult Female  Students in Qur'an Courses  (The Sample of Kırıkkale)
Özet: As prevalent religious education institutions, Qur'ān courses fulfill the needs of adults in reading and learning the Qur'ān and reinforcing religious subjects. In addition, Qur'ān courses have positive contributions in shaping the spiritual lives of students who attend the courses. The aim of this research is to reveal the prayer behaviors of adult female students studying in Qur’ān courses, which have an important student potential in the context of adult women. Phenomenology, one of the qualitative research designs, was used in the study. A semi-structured interview form was prepared for data collection. In accordance with the purposeful sampling method, the data of the research consisted of the answers given to the interview questions of 30 adult female students aged 25-57, who were studying in seven Qur'ān courses affiliated to Kırıkkale Provincial Muftiate in the 2021-2022 academic year. Content analysis was used in the analysis of the obtained data. As a result of the data obtained in the research, women who attended the courses stated that they were in communication with Allah by praying. Participants consider their first prayer experience important, which is contribute to prayer behaviors in adulthood. It has been observed that female students studying in Qur'ān courses resort to prayer as a way of coping with the problems they encounter in family and social relations. In addition, the participants believe that prayer has a healing aspect and that their lives are in order with prayer. The vast majority of female students stated that time and place are not essential for praying, it is significant to pray in every situation and time, and their daily lives are shaped by prayer.
Yazar isimleri: ['Elif SİLSÜPÜR']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Kalemname
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kalemname/issue/70521/1130951
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2487334
