Makale Başlığı: COMPARISON OF RESEARCH MODEL PREPARED FOR SUPPORTING ART EDUCATION IN PRE-SCHOOL
Özet: Human being is programmed to learning from the moment came into the world. The human being able to comprehend all kinds of learning is open to learning as long as its development continues. The technology and learning models that evolved in time have also changed according to this situation. The learning speed of an individual from a young age is faster and simpler than other ages. For this reason, when art education starts being learned from an early age, it will cause for easy learning in other sciences too. Art education should be understandable by everyone. Beginning art education in pre-school period will make positive contributions to the development of the individual. Developing an application program for pre-school individuals' art education by using technology within the developing world will help them strengthen their visual intelligence by providing continuity on learning. In the applications prepared in accordance with the development of the preschooler, using a combination of graphics attracting the attention of the person will accelerate learning. The program of art education, developed on preschoolers aged between 4 and 6 years, was prepared using a jigsaw technique. The learning status of individuals in state and private kindergartens was compared with the use of tablets. World famous painters and their works are used in this application. The painters and their works were selected according to the learning levels of the individuals. With the developed application, it is aimed to increase the educational attainment of the preschool individuals, to establish the culture of lifelong learning and to support their development and to transfer them to their academic skills.
Yazar isimleri: ['Merva KELEKCI']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Beykoz Akademi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/beykozad/issue/71287/1001183
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1996341
