Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of Opinions on Performing Prayer in the Context of Sunnah-Revelation
Özet: Evaluation of Opinions on Performing Prayer in the Context of Sunnah-Revelation İslamic scholars have expressed different opinions about source’s Sunnah of the prophet, based on confusion of distinctıon between prophet and human. There are forth understanding in this respect.  Some scholars and muhaddiths have had opinion entire the Sunnah being based on revaluatıons. Some scholars are of the opinion that the entire Sunnah is based on revelations. These scholars is named dreams’ prophet, inspirations’ prophet, and knowledge born to heart’s prophet as unread revelations. These scholars accepted that the prophet has been given wisdom outside the Quran. Public Scholars a accepted source’s Sunnah of the prophet, Quran, unread revelations outside Quran, human experience, news, sense of organs and theoretical views. Sunnah is the prophet reorganizations of human experiences under the revelations with his own ijtihad. The Sunnah of the Prophet is the main source that contains examples that gradually differentiate according to the change of reasons and conditions on earth. The Muhaddith were criticized by some intellectual schools because of their belief that the form that the Prophet put into religious life with the Sunnah is a kind of revelation and unchangeable provisions even if the conditions change. In this research, it is aimed to evaluate the arguments and evidences about the source of the Sunnah of the Prophet in prayer in terms of the science of narration. The denial of the hadiths, which were taken as evidence in the practices of prayer, of the Hariciye sects, which accepted that the only product of the revelation was the Qur'an, brought up the debate about the source of the Sunnah in the later periods. As a matter of fact, they objected to the view that the teaching on how to pray was taught to the Prophet by Gabriel and therefore it was a revelation outside the Qur'an. In the later period, some viewers developed a counter-argument with the idea that the Prophet received the prayer from the practices of the previous sharia’s, not from the instruction of Gabriel, citing that there was a similar practice of worship in the previous shari'ahs. Considering that it is fixed in the narrations that Gabriel communicated with the Prophet at different times regarding the performance of the prayer, it can be said that the prayer was gradually taught in accordance with the revelation of the Qur'an.Keywords: Hadith, Prayer, Sunnah, Revelation, Criticism
Yazar isimleri: ['Recep TUZCU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Tevilat
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tevilat/issue/67937/1102670
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2371126
