Makale Başlığı: PEDIATRIC HEADACHES: DOES NEUROIMAGING CONTRIBUTE TO DIAGNOSIS?
Özet: ObjectiveHeadache is a common complaint in childhood.While the etiology is usually benign, such as migraineor tension-type headache, cranial imaging is oftenperformed on patients to identify any missed or seriousunderlying pathology. In the present study we assessthe etiology and clinical characteristics of headachesin children and establish the diagnostic contribution ofimaging methods.Material and MethodThis retrospective study included patients whopresented with headaches to the PediatricNeurology Outpatient Clinic of Süleyman DemirelUniversity Faculty of Medicine between 2019 and2022. Headache information (frequency, duration,type, characteristics, intensity, localization, andaccompanying findings) was obtained, and the cranialimaging results of patients were recorded. Headacheswere classified according to the criteria established bythe International Headache Society.ResultsThe study included 234 patients aged 2–18 yearswith a mean age of 12.56 years, of which 64.5% werefemale. The diagnosis was primary headaches in68.4% of the patients, with tension-type headachesin 46.2%, migraine in 31.2%, and other primaryheadache causes in 22.5%. Among the secondaryheadaches, disorders of the cranium, neck, eyes,ears, nose, sinuses, teeth or other cervical structuresaccounted for 79.7%, with the most common causebeing sinusitis. Cranial imaging was performed on66.7% of the patients, of which 51.9% were identifiedwith abnormal findings. 14.1% of the imagingresults evaluated as abnormal were incidentallydetected cerebral abnormalities with potential clinicalsignificance; 10.3% were findings that were foundincidentally and had no clinical significance. Thetreatment of these patients did not change with theimaging result. Another 25% were evaluated asextracerebral abnormality associated with headache.Only one patient's outcome was associated withheadache. The patient was diagnosed with sinus veinthrombosis and the treatment was arranged.ConclusionThe majority of childhood headaches identified inthe present study were found to be benign, with theleading causes being tension-type headache, infectionand migraine, and imaging methods were found tobe of little diagnostic benefit. It was concluded thata detailed clinical assessment of patients presentingwith headaches could clarify the etiology, whileimaging methods may be useful in selected cases.
Yazar isimleri: ['Müjgan ARSLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: SDÜ Tıp Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sdutfd/issue/72867/1128938
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2478990
