Makale Başlığı: STRATEGIC PLANNING AND RISK ANALYSIS OF ONE BELT ONE ROAD TRADE ROUTE
Özet: The route, known as the historical Silk Road, was reactivated in 2013 by the President of China, announcing it as the "One Belt One Road Project." Commercial Project; It will cover significant investments covering China, Asia, Africa, and Europe, and many multinational companies will put their goods and products into service from this trade route. Since its establishment, the People's Republic of China has been the dominant power in the Asian region and constitutes the Project's starting point. China has the most neighbors globally and controls the Silk Road, making it a pioneer in the region in areas such as land, rail, and sea trade and energy security. China has made various agreements with the route countries in this Project, and the necessary infrastructure works have been started. In the commercial Project of the century, Turkey's geostrategic importance is excellent. Turkey plays an essential role in circulating multinational companies' goods, products, services, and market competition. The study aims to analyze the risks affecting the Project and reveal the Project's strategic planning process. The Project also faces some threats as it hosts too many companies, involves too many countries, and has a large amount of finance. In this study, the problems in the region were examined with the descriptive analysis method, and risk analysis was created. The primary stages of the project from the beginning to the present were reviewed with the strategic planning process model. Eliminating the Project's risks, which is expected to be completed in 2049, will be an essential supporting factor in the effective operation of the strategic planning process.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammed Ali YETGİN', 'Tuğçe Nur YILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Bankacılık Ekonomi ve Yönetim Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ubeyad/issue/69171/1076186
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2263928
