Makale Başlığı: Is there any relationship between serum leptin and tryptophan levels and depression and anxiety in obese patients?
Özet: Objectives: Depression and anxiety are common conditions in obese patients. Leptin plays a role in obesity, the role of tryptophan in obesity has been investigated frequently in current studies. The aim of this study is to evaluate whether serum leptin and triptophan levels are related to depression and anxiety in obesity patients. Methods: This is a descriptive and cross-sectional study in which the data of 88 patients aged 18 years and over, BMI 25 kg/m2 and above, who applied to the Family Medicine outpatient clinic between 01.07.2019 and 31.12.2019, were examined. Sociodemographic data form, Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) were completed by all patients included in the study. Results: There was no significant relationship between BMI and leptin, BMI and tryptophan levels. A positive correlation was found between tryptophan and weight, waist circumference and systolic blood pressure (SBP). Tryptophan was also significantly higher in smokers and those with a history of psychiatric treatment. Tryptophan levels in men were found to be significantly higher than in women. Serum tryptophan concentration of the patients was positively correlated with weight, waist circumference and SBP. Tryptophan level was found significantly higher in men than in women. Tryptophan was also significantly higher in smokers and those with a history of psychiatric treatment. There was no significant relationship between BDI, BAI and leptin and tryptophan levels. Conclusion: The significant relationships between serum tryptophan level and weight, waist circumference and SBP may be useful in the management, follow-up and treatment of obese patients.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zeynep VELİOĞLU', 'Duygu İlke YILDIRIM', 'Mehmet ERYILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Troia Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/troiamedj/issue/72865/1118052
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2433967
