Makale Başlığı: A Sociological Study on High School Students' Perception of Deism Istanbul / Basaksehir Example
Özet: Considering the entire history of humanity, it is seen that atheism is limited to individuals, and societies do not exist without religion. In other words, wherever human society existed, religion also existed. Because human beings; In his journey to understand and make sense of the universe, nature and himself, he has always needed the existence of a super-human / post-human power. The existence of the God to whom he can direct his wishes to get rid of the pains brought by the disasters he has been exposed to, his expectations from the life he lives, his hopes and concerns about the future, and the feeling that he can trust this God or Gods have been one of the basic elements that enable people to attain spiritual comfort. Of course, religious understandings have difference and varied in every period. It is possible to consider deism as one of these different understandings and perspectives. In the this article, the perception of deism among high school students, who are in the adolescent category according to developmental psychology, is discussed in two different stages and methods, from the perspective of teachers and students. In the first stage, interviews were conducted with 20 teachers from different branches, and the teachers were asked about the perceptions of deism of the students they attended. The factors in the formation of this perception, the equivalent of deism in the emotional world of the students, were discussed within the framework of the qualitative interview notes. In the second stage, there is the data of a quantitative research in which 338 students in Istanbul's Başakşehir district are sampled. Adolescents' awareness of the idea of deism, the impact of the turbulent period and environmental factors on the perception of deism, the relationship of students with their parents and the determinant of common parental attitudes as a factor, and the contribution of school type to the process of making sense of deism are discussed. The effects of social media, individual differences and academic / moral education on the formation of this perception were also examined.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gülten KOÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 12 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Edebiyat Dilbilim Eğitim ve Bilimsel Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/egitimvebilimsel/issue/70248/1105663
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2383114
