Makale Başlığı: TO NÂBÎ’S NA’AT WITH “BU” REDİF  NAZİRE WRITTEN BY İBRAHİM SABRİ
Özet: Nazîre, it is defined as a poet’s putting forward a new poem in the same meter, same rhyme or repeated voice and on the same subject, based on a poem. Almost every poet tried to write nazîres by imitating poets who lived before him or his contemporaries, trying to write similar or better poems, and they were often considered successful or unsuccessful as a result. Considered one of the important figures of the 17th century and one of the master poets, influenced many poets who came after him in his unique style and was followed and appreciated by these poets. The high number of nazîre written in our literature for Nâbî's na'at with “bu” redif, which is widely known and known almost by heart, is a sign of how much this poem is admired. One of the poets who wrote the aforementioned naat nazîre is İbrahim Sabri Efendi, the son of Mustafa Sabri Efendi, one of the last sheikh al-Islams. His exile life, which started in the 19th century with the addition of İbrahim Sabri Efendi's father and himself to the list of undesirables, passed in different countries of the world. İbrahim Sabri Efendi, who is almost forgotten among Turkish poets, shed light on a period with his poems in his work called “Mısır Dâneleri (Egyptian Grains)”. In his work, he dealt with the Ottoman culture, history and language consciousness and kept national and spiritual values in the foreground.In our study, first of all, the subject of nazîre and the tradition of nazîre was discussed with its main lines, then the nazîre written by İbrahim Sabri Efendi was introduced to Nâbî's na’at with “bu” redif. Similar and different aspects of nazîre with ground poetry have been tried to be revealed; The nazire written was compared with the ground poem and annotated and literary evaluations were made.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hatice ÖZDİL']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Hikmet - Akademik Edebiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/hikmet/issue/73257/1130888
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2487049
