Makale Başlığı: Investigating the efficiency of multithreading application programming interfaces  for parallel packet classification in wireless sensor networks
Özet: This paper investigates the most appropriate application programming interface  API  that best accelerates  the flow-based applications on the wireless sensor networks  WSNs . Each WSN include many sensor nodes which  have limited resources. These sensor nodes are connected together using base stations. The base stations are commonly  network systems with conventional processors which are responsible for handling a large amount of communicated data in  flows of network packets. For this purpose, classification of the communicated packets is considered the primary process  in such systems. With the advent of high-performance multicore processors, developers in the network industry have  considered these processors as a striking choice for implementing a wide range of flow-based wireless sensor networking  applications. The main challenge in this field is choosing and exploiting an API which best allows multithreading; i.e.  one which maximally hides the latency of performing complex operations by threads and increases the overall efficiency  of the cores. This paper assesses the efficiency of Thread, Open Multiprocessing, and Threading Building Blocks  TBB   libraries in multithread implementation of set-pruning and grid-of-tries packet classification algorithms on dual-core and  quad-core processors. In all cases, the speed and throughput of all parallel versions of the classification algorithms are  much more than the corresponding serial versions. Moreover, for parallel classification of a sufficiently large number  of packets by both classification algorithms, TBB library results in higher throughput and performance than the other  libraries due to its automatic scheduling and internal task stealing mechanism.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Mayıs 2020
Dergi ismi: Turkish Journal of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tbtkelektrik/issue/54388/739724
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1110733
