Makale Başlığı: The Significance of Muḥammad Shahrūr’s Scientific-Historical Method in Contemporary Islamic Legal Theory (Uṣūl al-Fiqh)
Özet: The determination and application of Islamic legal rulings without causing turmoil in the modern world result in challenges continuing to be discussed. Since the methods for establishing modern Islamic law are not appropriately revised, the proposed measures tend to fail. The article examines the significance of upgrading the legal theory of Islamic law, known as the discipline of uṣūl al-fiqh. The theoretical upgrade is manifested in the application of both a critical-historical method and a scientific-historical method, the application of multiple contemporary academic approaches drawn from the humanities, social and positive sciences in addition to traditional religious knowledge and opinions from classical scholars. The issue of upgrading the discipline of uṣūl al-fiqh through the application of the scientific-historical method requires convincing scholars of the idea that the scientific-historical method is a prospective and integrative method for the contemporary discipline of uṣūl al-fiqh. The scientific-historical method is considered a new method in the discipline of uṣūl al-fiqh for three reasons. In the first instance, it is compatible with the principles of scientific democracy or pluralism (applying multiple approaches in problem-solving and adjudication). In the second instance, it is suitable for the demands of modern societies. In the third instance, it is suitable for the structure of modern states. In terms of the contemporary discipline of uṣūl al-fiqh, the article emphasizes the significance of Shaḥrūr’s scientific-historical method in creating modern Islamic law. Nonetheless, the article still does not incorporate a concrete definition of Shaḥrūr’s limits (ḥudūd) and does not provide examples of the use of the scientific-historical method in solving problems (e.g., eradicating legal corruption and promoting law enforcement in the Muslim world). Future studies may focus on the definition of Shaḥrūr’s ḥudūd and the implementation of his scientific-historical method in solving problems of contemporary Islamic law.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhyar FANANİ']
Yayın Yılı: 22 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Ilahiyat Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/is/issue/73504/1126261
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2467704
