Makale Başlığı: Nutritional Solutions Against Disability Problems Affecting Nutritional Status in Old Age
Özet: Aging is a universal process seen in every living being and causes decrease in all functions. Older population is increasing rapidly around the world; one of every 6 people is predicted to be 65 years and older by 2050. Aging, being a physiological process, is a period that reduces/ limits the activity level and functionality of individuals and may make them socially, physically and emotionally dependent to different degrees. Changes are observed in physiological, psychological, cognitive and social areas as age progresses. While cognitive and functional capacity decreases, number of chronic diseases may increase. It is important to maintain and improve nutritional status in the prevention, delay and treatment of aging related diseases. Nutritional solutions applied against problems affecting nutritional status of older adults are efficient in improving the nutritional status, and they should be increased and disseminated. Nutritional service practices for older adults have the potential to reduce food insecurity in old age, reduce the possibility of various disability conditions which may affect nutritional status negatively, and enrich social life. In this context, there are smart devices and technologies that support daily living activities, mobile applications such as ShopWell, Nutrihealth, MyPlate, PlateJoy, and food delivery applications such as SmoothFood, Meals on Wheels in the literature. Disability and injuries may be prevented thanks to the technological devices that assist nutrition, it may be ensured that older adults can continue their active lives in a healthy way and improve their nutritional status with nutritional service applications providing social support. In this regard, there are more diverse those applications abroad than in Turkey. In our country, it is recommended to increase the variety of nutrition service applications for older adults and to monitor the results of applications. In this article, nutritional solutions for disability problems affecting nutritional status in old age were reviewed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kübra TONBALAK', 'Dilek ONGAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Mayıs 2022
Dergi ismi: İzmir Katip Çelebi Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ikcusbfd/issue/70141/960539
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1853602
