Makale Başlığı: Overwatching Movies/Series As A Borderline Defense of Acting Out: A Versatile Multifaceted Psychological Perspective to Cinema through a Clinical Case Report
Özet: Psychotherapy is a treatment in which people get to know, discover and change themselves by working on mental healing mechanisms. Psychotherapy is the child of the 20th century and has been constantly developing, renewing and enriching for nearly a century. In this study, psychology’s view of cinema within the framework of the psychotherapy process, how cinema/series can be a borderline acting out defense, and how cinema can be a mediator function in overcoming the existential crisis and anxiety in which postmodern people fall are discussed through a psychotherapy case. Our main focus in the study is the case of “Samyeli", who has schizoid defenses and a diagnosis of quiet borderline made by a clinical evaluation within the framework of psychodynamic theories (Masterson Therapy). The psychotherapy process of this person took about 2 years. In the treatment of Samyeli, theoretical and technical Masterson therapy tools were used. When the therapy process was over, it was understood that this case contained a multifactorial diversity that could not be evaluated only with the dynamics of early infancy and childhood experience. It was seen that the case shed light on the existential and socio-psychological problems of the people of the age and even having very deep and rich dynamics in cinema-psychology. For these reasons, the therapy process of this person will be explained with the dynamics of Masterson theory and cinema/series issues will mostly be discussed as acting out defense in the case report. On the other hand, issues such as the relationship between cinema and psychotherapy, the positive psychological, existential and clinical effect mechanisms of cinema; how deterministic theories based on object-relations and existential theories inspired by continental philosophy and based on the criticism of modernity can be combined within the framework of complementarity and holism in understanding people and their problems are focused indirectly within the study.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammed ARIKAN', 'Aylin TUTGUN-ÜNAL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: SineFilozofi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sinefilozofi/issue/72884/1064990
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2220483
