Makale Başlığı: An Evaluation of Communication Skills Training Results in the Context of Gender
Özet: Aim: Medical students who graduate from medical school are expected to be competent in professional Practices, Professional values and approaches, and professional and individual development. Within the scope of professional values and approaches, which are one of these three basic competence areas, a physician who graduated from the faculty of medicine is required to be competent in communication skills. It is recommended to have communication skills training and practices in the medical education curriculum in this context. Communication skills training has been one of the basic courses of medical education in recent years. However, in the context of gender, communication skills training outcomes are ignored in medical education. This study was designed to examine the differences in the attainment of communication skills training in the context of gender.Methods: This study was designed as a pretest-posttest intervention study to evaluate the capacity of communication skills training to develop communication and empathy skills in medical students and to investigate whether there is a gender difference in this capacity. Before and after the training, students were asked to fill out the Communication Skills Attitude Scale and the Empathic Tendency Scale. 121 medical faculty 3rd-year students who fully participated in the communication skills training and filled out the scales used in the study were included in the study.Results: Of the 121 students with a mean age of 20.6±1.2 years, 47.9% (n=58) were male and 52.1% (n=63) were female. There was a significant difference between the mean values of the empathic tendency scale total score, communication skills attitude scale total and sub-dimension scores measured in students before and after the education (p<0.001 p=0.002 p<0.001 p<0.001, respectively). It was observed that the differences between the total score values of the empathic tendency scale measured at two different times according to gender were significantly different from each other (p<0.001). The amount of change (increase) in the total score value of the empathic tendency scale observed in men was significantly higher than the value measured in women. Conclusions: The results of the study show that communication skills training improves the communication and empathy skills of physician candidates. Another important point in our study is that this training should be repeated longitudinally in future lessons. Our results show that male physician candidates are open to improving their communication and empathy skills. The fact that male students benefit from training more than female students in our research suggests that all kinds of opportunities, including gender, should be evaluated while creating a training plan.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zerrin GAMSIZKAN', 'Şengül CANGÜR']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Tıp Eğitimi Dünyası
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ted/issue/72238/1096904
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2346488
