Makale Başlığı: Analysis of Patients With Acute Upper Gastrointestinal System Hemorrhage Applying to Kahramanmaras Sutcu Imam University Medical Faculty Emergency Department
Özet: AbstractObjective: Gastrointestinal system bleeding is a health problem with a high life-threatening potential that is frequently encountered in emergency departments in hospitals. This study was planned to determine the etiologic causes, clinical findings, endoscopic findings, and prognosis in patients admitted to our emergency department and diagnosed with upper gastrointestinal system bleeding.Material and Methods: The files of the patients admitted to emergency department due to upper gastrointestinal system bleeding were retrospectively reviewed. Demographic data, clinical characteristics, etiological causes, laboratory and endoscopic results of 31 patients were reviewed. In statistical evaluation, Student t test, One way ANOVA test and SPSS 20.0 package program was used. p<0.05 was considered statistically significant.Results: Hematemesis was the most common reason for admission. As a result of the endoscopic procedure performed on the patients, erosive gastritis was found most frequently. 16.1% of the patients underwent sclerotherapy, and other patients underwent medical treatment. 83.9% of the patients were discharged, however, 16.1% of them died.Conclusion: Analgesics of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs group and the drugs of the antiaggregant group play a significant role in upper gastrointestinal system bleeding. The drug use should be carefully investigated especially in the elderly population with a history of comorbidities, and the possibility of gastrointestinal system bleeding should not be forgotten while prescribing analgesics. Mortality is high in patients with upper gastrointestinal system bleeding, the treatment should be initiated quickly, and endoscopy should be planned as soon as possible.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammed Semih GEDİK', 'Hakan HAKKOYMAZ', 'Ali İhsan KİLCİ', 'Özlem GÜLER', 'Yavuzalp SOLAK']
Yayın Yılı: 2 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Kahramanmaraş Sütçü İmam Üniversitesi Tıp Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ksutfd/issue/73295/1012667
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2038148
