Makale Başlığı: State's Positive Obligation in Human Rights: An Analysis of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court
Özet: Human rights are important privileges that a person is born with. The set of principles that form the basis and dynamo of human rights is human dignity. In our opinion, human dignity, which forms the basis of innate human rights, has a normative power in this sense. The most concrete manifestation of this power emerges in the transfer of human rights to life practice. The main function of the constitutions, which are the most important guarantors of human rights and freedoms at the current stage, is to realize them rather than to protect and secure them. In this context, both the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court bear a heavy burden in the context of the European Convention on Human Rights and the Constitution. Because, in transferring human rights to life practice, there are obligations of the state to "respect", "protect" and "realize", which we can call the triple typology. In this article, we especially deal with the positive obligations of the state. Thanks to positive obligations, it is possible for the state to realize human rights. In the article, first of all, the nature, meaning and dimensions of human rights are briefly discussed. Then, the approach of the European Court of Human Rights to this doctrine together with the concept of positive obligations was examined. Finally, the approach of the Constitutional Court to the doctrine of positive obligations is also examined in the article. Our aim with this article is to draw attention to the fact that the state has gone beyond the function of securing rights and freedoms in the context of constitutionalism and has now passed to the stage of realizing rights and freedoms.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: İstanbul Medipol Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/imuhfd/issue/69681/1138403
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2517274
