Makale Başlığı: THE EFFECT OF STRATEGIC LEADERSHIP ON INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL: A RESEARCH ON INDUSTRIAL SECTOR EMPLOYEES
Özet: Successful institutions of the 21st century will be those that dominate knowledge. It is necessary for organizations to dominate information, maintain assets and gain competitive advantage. For this reason, the concept of intellectual capital is gaining more and more importance. Intellectual capital not only enables institutions to gain competitive advantage, but also expresses the information that institutions transform into value. On the other hand, in order to manage this information, it differs from the classical leadership approach and the need for strategic leadership is increasing. This work; It aims to determine whether strategic leadership has an effect on intellectual capital, and if there is, to determine the size and direction of the effect. In order to achieve this, employees in the management team, who received postgraduate education, were selected to determine the effect of strategic leadership on intellectual capital. After this election, the literature was searched for the survey to be created to determine the impact, the questions on Intellectual Capital were from Yıldız, S. (2011)'s study titled "The Effect of Intellectual Capital on Business Performance: A Research in the Banking Sector", and questions on Strategic Leadership were "John Pisapia". Strategic Leadership Scale (Kılınçkaya, 2013) developed by “Bekir Kılınçkaya” and adapted by “Bekir Kılınçkaya” was formed from the questions that Kılınçkaya created as a result of his research in the literature. The prepared questionnaire was applied to 107 managers who received postgraduate education working in factories located in the industrial zone in Istanbul. Various analyzes such as correlation and regression analysis were performed with the SPSS program on the results obtained from the questionnaire.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yasemin DURMAZ', 'F. Burcu DEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Dumlupınar Üniversitesi İİBF Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dpuiibf/issue/70376/1112692
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2411601
