Makale Başlığı: Smoking and Affecting Factors in Medical Education at the Beginning, Usak-2018
Özet: Objectives: Tobacco use is one of the world's largest public health problems. The most common addiction problem among tobacco products is smoking, which is often started in youth. In this period, a significant portion of those who start smoking become dependent and become permanent smokers in a few years. The aim of this study was to investigate the smoking habits, affecting factors and addiction levels of first year medical students.Materials and Methods: The universe of this cross-sectional descriptive study consisted of 62 students in the first grade who started education in the 2017-2018 academic year at Uşak University Faculty of Medicine. In addition to demographic information, the Fagerström Nicotine Dependence Test (FNBT) was used to measure smoking habits and behaviors, smoking conditions in the family, close friends, age at onset, reasons for questioning, and the level of nicotine dependence. The data were evaluated by using Chi-square test, Mann-Whitney U test and Pearson Correlation test.Results: In the study group, the first year students of the medical faculty smoked at a rate of 20.30%, mainly males. The distribution of smokers and the majority of their friends were found to be significantly different among smokers and nonsmokers.The average Fagerström dependence score in smokers was 5.16±2.1(min: 2, max: 9).The rate of highly dependent 16.80%.The 58.30% of the students who smoked, most of their friends smoked and 66.70% of them started to smoke during high school. In more than half of the smokers (58.30%), the most important reason to start is the friend-environment effect and they are considering quitting smoking. On the other hand, the rate of those who think to contribute to the fight against smoking is significantly higher in the non-smoking group. More than half (67.80%) of the study group thought that the cigarette law was partially implemented.Conclusıon: In our study, the rate of smoking among the students who started their education in the medical faculty was found to be similar to those of university students and young population in other areas, although it was less than the general population. Medical students, who will assume important duties in the fight against smoking in the coming years, should be kept away from smoking from the beginning of their education and effective studies should be conducted for the smokers to quit. Throughout the learning process, both through education and social activities (establishment community, raising awareness, contributing to public education, etc.), it will make a significant contribution to building a smoke-free society.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ufuk BERBEROĞLU', 'Dilek ÖZTAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Kasım 2019
Dergi ismi: Ankara Medical Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/amj/issue/50345/651986
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/864240
