Makale Başlığı: TWO FACES OF THE BORDER: TURKEY-IRAN BORDER WALL AND ITS IMPACT
Özet: The border is conceptualized as the 'homeland' because it encompasses the symbol of state sovereignty, the sanctuary of security, and the conceptual and ideal, which is a collective identity. Borders, as a geopolitical interruption, are 'at the center' of political geography studies. Therefore, Turkey's geographical location; Recently, the border security and securitization axis has formed the basis of the border thesis due to reasons such as a global actor, with Europe. In addition, especially with the increase in the effect of neoliberal policies, border regions; It has been the route of intense flow of goods, information and people. Limits; The place where the walls and barbed wires rise has turned into low-intensity conflict areas and this situation continues to exist as an important issue in the country's policies.Purpose: The main thesis and purpose of the research; The Turkey-Iran border model, which is frequently emphasized in border and refugee studies and practice, where all kinds of security measures are lacking in the axis of border security/securitization, and which will not interrupt the "border people" and their lives today and in the future, during the creation and security of the borders. is to explain in the example of the wall.Method: "Turner's frontier model", which did not accept the "Germanic germ theory" by objecting to the emphasis on racial or hereditary characteristics, centered the "western settlers' struggle for borders" as a transformative force. Later border studies continued to develop on the basis of security (Wisconsin School etc.). The study is built on a new border thesis called the "multidimensional border model", which is based on the logic of "border people" to continue their lives at the border today and in the future, which was created against the one-dimensional border models that create victims, and based on the logic of designing other border elements accordingly. The typical sample of the model is the predictions developed on the Turkey-Iran border wall data.Originality: It should be known that the border model, which is considered correctly on the one-dimensional “security” axis, will pose a risk for the border people and the future of the border in multidimensional multi-factor feasibility. In the research; The multidimensional positive and negative environments created by the walls built for the Turkey-Iran border security have been constructed together with the possible unforeseen negative scenarios, despite the predicted empirical results.
Yazar isimleri: ['İlhan Oğuz AKDEMİR', 'Emine AKMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 11 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: İstanbul Ticaret Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iticusbe/issue/72897/1192926
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2724104
