Makale Başlığı: Ontological love in Mustafa Ulusoy's novels
Özet: In this study, three novels of Mustafa Ulusoy that deal with the subject of love are included. Novels, “How did the subject of love take place as an ontological field of inquiry?” examined on the question. The subject of love has been read in relation to the author's profession, psychiatry. The author has dealt with the subject of love in connection with the characters of the people in the novels. People's view of life, the way they look at themselves has affected the love they live. Love is given more with the question of being. Hearts seeking the meaning of their existence question how to live their love and why they are unhappy. At the beginning of the study, the subject of love is discussed. In the first part of the study, information is given about the life and works of the author. In the second part of the study, respectively; The novels Love in the Corridor of Mirrors, Tell Me Something While Going and Hayat Apartment are examined. First of all, the summary of the novels is given. Later, the subject of love and death in the novel was opened. The effect of love and death on the individual's communication with society, his environment and himself has been observed. The problems faced by the individual in the novels have affected his understanding of the existence problem. The environment in which the individual grew up was not independent of his psychological development. The individual has tried to make sense of his existence and experiences as a result of the interaction he has seen from his environment. Mustafa Ulusoy actually questions the existence of man through the theme of love. It tells that the human soul cannot be satisfied with the ephemeral. In order to make sense of our existence, we need a transcendent being other than the ephemeral. In this novel, he is seen with the disappointments of love. In addition to love, intricate human relations, human dissatisfaction, self-identification with the other, questioning of existence and non-existence are handled in the novels.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1192635
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2722958
