Makale Başlığı: The Cases of Women in Behçet Necatigil's Poems
Özet: Art teaches us to look at life, nature, time and space from other horizons. Poetry, on the other hand, makes the moment meaningful with its connotations, while sometimes evoking long-lasting thoughts in the tumult of daily life. Behçet Necatigil is a poet who expresses his views on poetry and art with his prose, which expresses the events that surround man and leave traces in him, with the possibilities of the art of poetry. The poet, who is one of the names of Turkish poetry who was able to catch his own unique expression, expresses the states of ordinary people in his poems with an effective and simple expression. The existence of a human expression and deep observation that can unite readers from almost every part of the society in common feelings, regardless of ideology or class, makes itself felt in his poems. The woman, who is the founder of life even in its quietest and most invisible form, and photographs of women from almost every scene of life have a unique place in his poems. Women of all ages and from all backgrounds find their place in Necatigil's poems, from little girls to women who shoulder the burdens of a house for their livelihood, from young girls who are stuck between their traditions and desires, to street women, to mothers who are sleepless due to the anxiety of their sick child. In the poems, the voice of a non-judgmental, moderate approach that tries to capture people from their inner world is heard. Behçet Necatigil is a poet who observes people in daily life and tries to interpret them in the life they live. With this approach, his polemics, political events, as a name that transcends time, will appeal to the feelings of the readers of every era. In this article, in which "the subject of women" is tried to be discussed in Necatigil's poems, brief information is given about the poet's perception of poetry and poet. In the scanning made among all the poems, the poems about women were classified and tried to be classified within themselves.
Yazar isimleri: ['Emine Bilgehan TÜRK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Ahi Evran Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aeusbed/issue/73599/1140404
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2524686
