Makale Başlığı: A Journey in Turkish Philosophy Lexicons Regarding the Concept of Einbil-dungskraft  and Thinking on Imagination from Kant's First Critique
Özet: This study aims to point out the journey of the term Einbildungskraft throughout the Turkish dictionar-ies of philosophy and fields of use the term in Kant’s critical philosophy. Thus, some of the dictionaries of philosophy that hold together the concepts considered as the building blocks of philosophy and their meanings to sustain an intellectual tradition, are the subject of this study. It focuses on the transmission of cultural memory, which is formed by the concepts of philosophy, and the importance of the task of term revivification. With this study, the importance of mastering in the terminology of philosophy from past to present, in reconstructing the concepts of Kant's critical philosophy in Turkish is pointed out. Thus, through the term Einbildungskraft, the meanings given to the term by Kant and the chosen words while translating it into Turkish are emphasized. The value of the rectification activity in the language and the importance of the attachment to the tradition of thought are emphasized. In this sense, Kant's terminology, and conceptual choices that he made in his own works are discussed. The allusions on concept construction that Kant made in his critical philosophy are included. On the other hand, the importance of choosing the term that best meets the semantic load of a philosophical concept is emphasized. The Turkish equivalents of Einbildungskraft appropriate to Kant’s usage and the adequacy of these words as the translation of the concept are pointed out. In order to distinguish the semantic nuances of the concept, its use in the precritical period and critical period has been emphasized.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşe Hilal AKIN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: ULUM
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ulum/issue/71365/1126697
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2469508
