Makale Başlığı: The Role of Urban Planning in Climate Change Adaptation Process
Özet: The consequences of environmental destruction occurring in the natural and built environment are becoming more and more obvious for a variety of reasons (the usage of fossil fuels, changes in land use, deforestation, etc.) in the period of from 19th century when the industrialization activities have begun until the present day. The climate change problem is generally defined as critical changes that occur over long periods based on the average conditions and values of climate. This issue appears in the form of the accumulation of greenhouse gases as a result of human-oriented activities and also an increase in various types of disasters’ severity and frequency. It is obvious that disasters from occurring due to global climate change are more effective in urban areas where the accumulation of greenhouse gases mainly occur (according to Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – IPCC, this ratio is approximately 44%) and also this phenomenon causes irreversible changes in the natural environment throughout the world in the 1980s and Turkey in the early 2000s.There exist many reasons both in academic writing and practice examples why urban areas are more fragile in the face of natural and human disasters caused by global climate change. Among these reasons, certain ones can be listed as unplanned and uncontrolled urbanization dynamics, excess impermeable surfaces and intensive greenhouse gas emissions, the urban heat island effect, the large-scale destruction as a result of natural areas facing the threat of built environment, the intensive use of fossil fuels in order to meet the energy needs of dense population, etc. Besides the environmental damages, new areas of poverty will occur in cities as a result of serious damage in the economies of developing countries depending on the loss of life and property raised from after any disaster. According to a report published by the IPCC in 2007, it is found that the cost of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and developing strategies for adaptation in urban areas would be much lower than the cost of the damage caused by global climate change. It can be said that adaptation studies related to global climate change are principal issues to be prioritized and addressed with a holistic approach both on central and local scale.From this point, the aim of the study is to clarify the relationship of climate change and urban planning by using the 	literature research and also to find answer the question of what can be done from the perspective of urban planning by emphasizing the importance of mitigation and adaptation studies in the face of disasters caused by the climate change. The qualitative research method is chosen as the method of the study. The role of urban planning is examined in the context of cause–effect relationship in the process of adaptation to climate change. In accordance with the research conducted, the adaptation studies related to global climate change are principal issues to be prioritized and addressed with a holistic approach both on central and local scale. Moreover, the necessity of many professional branches working together has also been emphasized that are considering climate change and cities together. Cities should come out of being seen as mere development areas and also plans should be made in accordance with the dynamics of the regions by following the new urbanization trends on the axis of sustainable development.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nur Sinem PARTİGÖÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Resilience
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/resilience/issue/68460/1026712
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2092998
