Makale Başlığı: MIGRANT AND REFUGEE INTEGRATION IN TURKEY: POLICIES, PRACTICES AND CHALLENGES
Özet: Purpose: This study aims to provide a general assessment of the integration policies put into practice in Turkey. Following a historical evaluation, it examines the practices towards education, labor force participation, healthcare, and social cohesion after 2011, when a mass forced migration from Syria arrived.Methodology: Based on secondary resources, this study covers a historical and critical analysis of the integration policies towards migrants and refugees in Turkey. To that end, it has scrutinized the relevant academic literature as well as it has drawn upon the data in the reports provided by the public institutions, various organizations, and NGOs.  Findings: Turkey has been receiving immigration from a wide range of areas with historical, cultural, and geographical ties in common. Throughout this long history of immigration in the country, both arriving groups and immigration and integrations policies of the state have varied. With the arrival of Syrian refugees in 2011, Turkey hosts the largest number of refugees in the world. According to the official data, today, almost four million Syrians and almost two million registered migrants and asylum seeker in different categories live in Turkey and their presence increases the need for local integration and social cohesion policies. During the period between 1980s and 2010s, there was not any integration policies that were systematically applied, but, recently, with the support of European Union funds, there has been some efforts that might be called as “top-down” or “reserved” integration. However, in recent years, the political polarization and economic crisis that Turkey has been going through as well as the increasing discrimination and racism reduces its reception and integration capacities. The idea that refugees are “temporary”, that is, they would return to their home countries one day, is still prevalent in the Turkish society after ten years since their first arrival. This perception of temporariness and uncertainty weakens the integration policies and practices. Originality: This study aims to make a distinctive contribution to the field of migration studies through providing a discussion on the integration policies and practices towards migrants and refugees in Turkey from a historical perspective in the first place, then, an evaluation of the overall situation regarding the integration of Syrians who have arrived with mass forced migration in the last ten years with a special focus on service areas.
Yazar isimleri: ['Didem DANIŞ', 'Hilal DİKMEN']
Yayın Yılı: 11 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: İstanbul Ticaret Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iticusbe/issue/72897/1106715
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2387504
