Makale Başlığı: Transforming of Conventional Type Squirrel Cage Induction Motor to Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor for Improving Efficiency on Industrial Applications
Özet: The increasing of world population, forced human beings to produce clean energy, more creative solutions have been developed to use the energy with most efficient way. Researches on this topic still working today. Nowadays, new electrical machines are invented and the currently used ones are being continue to be improved. In industry, if a survey is made according to use of electric motors, it will be seen that, induction motors used in industry average eighty percent. When viewed from the efficiency and energy quality of the interconnected system, increasing efficiency of induction motors will provide advantages for the production, transmission, distribution systems and the network. On the other hand, Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motors (PMSMs) have not windings on rotor core and much more efficient than induction motors. In this way PMSMs will save the company from spending unnecessary energy. For this reason, in this study, an industrial conventional type squirrel cage induction motor (SCIM) has been converted into a permanent magnet synchronous motor (PMSM) for improve the overall efficiency. For improving the efficiency in design and production, induction motor’s stator core will not change. Only squirrel cage rotor core of induction motor will change with PMSM in rotor design production stage. As a result of this conversion, various electromechanical parameters have changed and improved. Electromechanical modification process has been provide better energy density and power density for this motor. As a result of the research, the cost of modification process will be amortized in usage. In this way, conventional type induction motor (IM) that dominates the vast majority of the industry is converted into PMSM, it is seen that energy efficiency and energy quality will increase.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Murat TEZCAN', 'Aleyna Simge AKYURT']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: International Scientific and Vocational Studies Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bilmes/issue/70729/1129634
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2481847
