Makale Başlığı: Flexible Solar Cells Used in Self-Powered Wearable Electronic Technologies
Özet: Energy is an important factor for technological and economic development. The huge energy consumption caused by the rapid development of electronic devices along with the increasing environmental awareness has increased the new technology requirements to produce and store green and renewable energy. Among the renewable energy sources, solar energy is gaining importance day by day. Because solar energy is the most abundant, sustainable and cleanest energy in the world. With the continuous development of electricity generation technology from light, the share of solar energy in other conventional energies is increasing and it is becoming an alternative to fossil fuels. With the new technologies developed, solar energy is used in different fields. In this context, self-powered energy technology is highly promising for future wearable electronics, as it can ensure continuous operation of electronic devices without external power supply. Today, self-powered wearable electronic technologies are being developed using different types of flexible solar cells (EGHs). Wearable electronics have attracted great interest in recent years and are experiencing rapid growth. These technologies are mostly used for entertainment, smart monitoring, personal health and exercise control. In this study, flexible solar cells and self-powered wearable electronic technologies developed using these cells are summarized. In this context, first of all, flexible silicon solar cells (ESGHs), flexible perovskite solar cells (EPGHs), flexible organic solar cells (EOGHs), and flexible dye-sensitized solar cells (EBDGHs) were discussed. Later, sweat monitoring, motion monitoring, wearable fabric, heart rate monitoring, gas sensor and wearable display systems, which are self-powered wearable energy technologies integrated into flexible solar cells, were introduced. Finally, the challenges in front of wearable technologies and EGHs, solutions and predictions about their future situations were presented.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mesut EKMEKÇİ']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Uşak Üniversitesi Fen ve Doğa Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/usufedbid/issue/70147/1050648
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2165417
