Makale Başlığı: Investigation of the Impact of Can-filling Medium on the DNA Quality of Canned Tuna Sold in Supermarkets
Özet: Canned tuna is one of the most commonly consumed food products globally. Due to its high profit-ability  and  the  increasing  demand  for  it,  fraudulent  canned  tuna  products  have  become  a  serious  problem. The traceability of fish species in packaged material and, in the case of highly processed forms, in canned products, has become impossible; therefore, canned tuna is on the list of the top ten food items affected by fraud. These fraudulent actions cause not only unfair trade in the commer-cial market and fishing industry, but also cause health damage (such as allergies and poisoning) to the public. Complex food matrices also affect the extracted DNA quality when the main food products are served with another medium. Brine solutions, different kind of oil, and several types of sauce are used as filling medium in the canned tuna production process. These filling medium can cause con-tamination depending on whether they include oil, salt or other ingredients during DNA extraction from main products. DNA-based protocols have become popular due to their higher reliability rate compared to other protocols. This research investigates the potential impact of can-filling medium on DNA quality, which is a key factor for food traceability research. With this aim, canned tuna from various  brands  in  different  can-filling  medium  such  as  olive  oil,  sunflower  oil  and  different  kinds  of  sauces, were obtained from a Turkish supermarket. The quality properties, such as yield and purity, affected the traceability analyses. This study was designed to investigate the potential effect of the filling  medium  on  DNA  quality.  The  results  revealed  that  different  kinds  of  sauce  utilization  as  a  can-filling medium cause a reduction in the DNA quality of canned tuna compared to other canned tuna  samples  that  contain  olive  oil  and  sunflower  oil.  The  purity  of  extracted  DNA  in  canned  tuna  where  olive  oil  was  used  was  found  to  be  relatively  higher  than  other  tuna  groups  with  different  can-filling medium. Melting curve analyses revealed that sunflower oil causes relatively lower degra-dation  than  olive  oil  and  different  types  of  sauce  used  as  filling  medium.  These  results  could  be  beneficial for further seafood traceability research, especially in complex matrices.
Yazar isimleri: ['Elif Tugce AKSUN TUMERKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Aquatic Sciences and Engineering
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ase/issue/72502/1031790
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2112700
