Makale Başlığı: In the context of the diversity of wedding ceremonies in Azerbaijan Wedding traditions of Nakhchivan region
Özet: The aim of this article is to examine the cultural and musical aspects of the wedding ceremonies of the Nakhchivan region, which is one of the important elements of Azerbaijani folklore. The research model was designed in accordance with the case study and document analysis techniques from qualitative research methods. The reason for choosing the Nakhchivan region in the research is that the region has a rich content in terms of folkloric features and is protected folklorically. Relevant documents and interview method were used as data collection tools in the research. In the research, the elements of the Nakhchivan wedding ritual are presented in the light of relevant sources and interviews. The works performed in the elements of the wedding ritual were examined musically. The problem of the research is stated below. What are the musical features of the wedding rituals of Nakhchivan Region, which is one of the folkloric elements of Azerbaijan, and the works performed at weddings? The research model was designed in accordance with case study and document analysis techniques from qualitative research methods. The reason for choosing the Nakhchivan region in the research is that the region has rich content in terms of folkloric features and is protected. Relevant documents and interview method were used as data collection tools in the research. In the research, the elements of the Nakhchivan wedding ritual are presented in the light of relevant sources and interviews. The works performed in the elements of the wedding ritual were analyzed musically. Sibelius notation program was used in the notation of the works. The researcher conducted interviews with the elderly living in the Nakhchivan region. Transcriptions of the interviews were made and the findings were presented. In Nakhchivan region weddings; There are stages of liking a girl, interrupting, embassy, engagement, holiday, girl’s wedding, henna night, men’s wedding, veil ceremony, hand kissing. Yallı Dance is an important musical symbol of the region. This dance is performed collectively, its variety and dance melodies are unique. Other games played at weddings; Kocheri, Tanzara, Tello, Gala-to-galaya, Urfanı have survived to the present day with cultural transfer. In the research, the musical notes of the folk songs Hakışta, Gülüm Hey, Henna Night and Bride’s Farewell were presented. mong the wedding ceremonies in the Nakhchivan region, the most important stages are the Engagement ceremony and the Hınayahdi ceremony. These are the most important parts of wedding preparation.Depending on the stages of the wedding ceremonies, the content and melody of the songs are different. Although the music sung at the initial stage is distinguished by its simplicity, the melodies gradually become complex. The richest examples of music can be found in the “Hınayahdı” ceremony.
Yazar isimleri: ['Günay MAMMADOVA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Rast Müzikoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rastmd/issue/72289/1137360
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2513386
