Makale Başlığı: An approach in the management of cancer pain: music therapy
Özet: Pain is a common symptom in cancer patients as the disease progresses. Cancer pain usually has mixed causes that may have nociceptive, neuropathic and inflammatory components. The severity of pain varies depending on the type, stage and spread of cancer. It is reported as 20-50% in early stages and this rate reaches 55-90% in advanced stages. The quality of life of a person is negatively affected by cancer pain. In addition to the remarkable advances in pharmacological methods of pain management, there is a need for a more holistic approach that will help to integrate the whole of physical, mental, spiritual and emotional aspects. For centuries, music has been used to raise people's soul. It was believed that the mathematical nature of music influenced the mind and body. It has also been reported that the principles of compliance are believed to have the power to provoke various emotions. Music therapy allows clinical and evidence-based use of music interventions to achieve personalized goals in a therapeutic relationship. Music therapy is the systematic use of music in a therapeutic relationship aimed at improving, maintaining, and improving emotional, physical and mental health. Music therapy helps the individual to increase self-expression, reduce fear and anxiety, reduce physical problems and use coping strategies. The quality of life of the individual is increasing. When the literature is examined, music therapy provides significant reductions in pain intensity by relieving the cancer patients, reducing the anxiety and improving the mood. Another result is that it is a nonpharmacological method that helps cancer patients use less narcotic analgesics.
Yazar isimleri: ['Esra TAYAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Kasım 2019
Dergi ismi: Ankara Medical Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/amj/issue/50345/652013
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/864311
