Makale Başlığı: OLIVE AND ITS TRADE ON THE CRETE ISLAND
Özet: Thanks to its location, Crete Island has been one of the most important trading bases of the Mediterranean. The island is in an extremely important region in terms of its strategic location, where the Mediterranean meets the Archipelago. Undoubtedly, olive is the most important product that is grown on the island. Olive is the fertile fruit of the Mediterranean climate. The oil and soap obtained from this product is the most important commercial commodity sent to Istanbul that meets the needs of the palace. Cultivation nature of olives that is undulant due to the climate hindered the trade of oil and soap obtained from it at intervals. Mukataa foundations were also established for olive oil production. Since the trade was disrupted by destruction of olive trees caused by the Greek Revolt and the destruction of some villages, the trade had suffered setbacks. Therefore, the public demanded that the taxes be postponed or split into installments for an indefinite period of time. The state's response to this request was positive. It is apparent from the archive documents that the quality of the soap produced in the region was high. Other important centers producing olive preferred to sell their soaps under the counterfeit Cretan stamp, affecting the soap business profoundly. The laws enacted imposed the producers to stamp their products with the original stamp of the place where the soap was produced. It is also apparent that olive oil was sold to different countries at more affordable prices by keeping the customs taxes low. After the first domestic disturbance which occured in 1770, the island became a place of constant internal conflicts. In addition, olive trees were devastated, particularly in 1897/98. This study aims to set out how agriculture and trade were affected by this situation and the difficulties experienced in the olive trade in this period, when political turmoils arose upon the Greek Revolt, in the light of the documents in the Presidential State Archive.
Yazar isimleri: ['Arzu BAYKARA TAŞKAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Tarih Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/utad/issue/70961/1017344
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2056785
