Makale Başlığı: Perspectives and Stigmatization Tendencies of University Students Studying in Health Related Departments Towards Different Groups Exposed to Stigmatization
Özet: This study was carried out to determine the perspectives and stigmatization tendencies of the university students studying in health-related departments towards different groups exposed to stigmatization. This descriptive research was carried out with 491 students studying at a Foundation University Faculty of Health Sciences in Istanbul. The data were collected using sociodemographic characteristics and regarding individuals exposed to stigmatization interview form and the Stigma Scale. The average age of the students is 20.35±1.56, 91.4% of them are women and 37.1% are students of the nursing department. It was determined that 45.4% of the students found the stigmatization of people wrong, 52.7% of them thought that individuals showing abnormal behavior should be stigmatized. It was determined that 56.8% of the students had a high tendency to stigmatization. It was determined that 4th-grade students' stigmatization tendency scores were higher than other grades. It was determined that male students' prejudice scores were higher than female students. It was determined that the stigmatization tendency scores of the students of the nutrition and dietetics department were lower than the other departments and that the students of the health management department were higher than the other departments. It was found that the labeling and psychological health scores of the students in the nuclear family structure and the prejudice scores of the students in the extended family structure were high. It is thought that the addition of subjects aimed at reducing the tendency to stigmatize individuals with different characteristics to the curriculum of health-related higher education programs will be effective in reducing students' tendency to stigmatization and gaining awareness.
Yazar isimleri: ['Özcan ERDOĞAN', 'Özlem IŞIL', 'Nesrin İLHAN', 'Kübra CURAL', 'Şevval GÜL', 'Mervenur YAZGAN', 'Damla VATANSEVER', 'Esma BÜYÜKŞAHİN', 'Caner ERTEN', 'Arife KUZAY']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2021
Dergi ismi: Haliç Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/husagbilder/issue/65424/879457
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1574400
