Makale Başlığı: Civil Society Perspective in the Development of Democratic Culture: The Case of TÜSİAD
Özet: Democratic practices can develop by reproducing themselves in societies with an immanent culture of democracy. The rate of electoral thresholds, which is seen as an important criterion in the democratic performance of countries, affects the culture of democracy, with its effects on political representation and participation. Non-governmental institutions and organizations are indispensable elements of democracies. In this study, the role of non-governmental institutions and organizations in realizing the elements of political representation and political participation in Turkey will be examined in terms of TÜSİAD, based on the media representation of election thresholds. TÜSİAD, a non-governmental organization, was selected for this research because nearly half of the non-governmental news about election thresholds in all newspapers comes from the organization. Other factors in the selection of TÜSİAD for this research were its political and legal studies and recommendations, including the election threshold, and its ability to create public opinion by having its proposals discussed by all social and political actors. This research aims to shed light on the representation of election thresholds in the media (in the field of civil society) using the important and original approach of analyzing TÜSİAD's press releases. Within the scope of the research, four national newspapers with different publication policies were selected in order to base the representation of civil society in the media on the findings reflecting the current situation. Attention has been paid to the fact that the newspapers, which are considered the media representation of civil society, have been published since 1983, when the election threshold came into effect. The data obtained through the election threshold theme in the research were digitized using the SPSS-based R Studio program infrastructure, which is a new qualitative data analysis program. The aim was to reach a conclusion about how much the need of democratic culture is met in Turkey by examining the content produced by TÜSİAD on media visibility and election thresholds. In addition, by analyzing media representation, the aim was to understand and make sense of the reflections of the quality and structure of Turkish political culture and civil society on democratic culture. As a result of the research, findings were reached on the relationship between the quality of civil society and political culture in Turkey and the democratic role of civil society in democratic development processes in the country.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 25 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: 4. BOYUT Medya ve Kültürel Çalışmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dortboyut/issue/73437/1204258
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2771141
