Makale Başlığı: An analysis of John Steinbeck’s novel of Mice and Men and Kemal Tahir’s novel The Hunchback of the Village on the theme of disability
Özet: The article analyzes the disabled individuals in both works and examines the perception of disability of the period. John Steinbeck is a realist writer who wrote in America in the 19th century and Kemal Tahir is a realist writer who wrote in Turkey in the 19th century. Realistic literature, by its nature, reflects the spirit of the time and cannot remain indifferent to the opinions of the people. For this reason, although the theme of disability reflected by the novels is not defined as the absolute perception of the whole society, it is partially suggestive. The perspective of the two societies in that century towards disabled people is examined based on these works. There are disabled characters in both novels. Lennie Small in Of Mice and Men (1937) and Çalık Kerim in Köyün Kamburu [The Hunchback of the Village] (1959) are disabled individuals. This study initially examines the perception of disability in America in the 20th century through the novel. The bond of friendship between Lennie Small and George Milton is examined through some of the disability models as well as the perception of disability in America of the time. In the second part, the life of Çalık Kerim, who is the main character of Köyün Kamburu [The Hunchback of the Village], is examined through the theme of disability. By referring to the development of the character known as Çalık Kerim throughout the novel, it is discussed whether this situation has a connection with the developing disability perception of Turkish society. The aim to be reached at the end of the article is to determine how the theme of disability is handled in both novels. By trying to determine in which of the two works the concept of disability is shown as more disadvantageous, this research aims to establish a connection between the perspective on disability of the two societies at that time and the works.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1190377
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2713540
