Makale Başlığı: Two Important Annotations of Hamziyah: Comparison of Khayr Al-Qirá and Al-Minah al-Makkiyah
Özet: Annotations have an important function in understanding the works written in the classical period. As well as the field of language, information related to many basic fields is given in the poetry annotations under a single couplet. Poetry annotations are remarkable with these features. Many works have been written about Mohammad ibn Sa‘îd al-Bûsîrî’s (d. 695/1296 [?]) Qasîdah Al-Hamziyah. The oldest annotation of the eulogy that we can obtain is the work of Mohammad al-Jawjarî (d. 889/1484) called Khayr al-Qira fî Sharh Umm al-Qura. In the next period, referring to this work in more than sixty places such as criticisms, quotations, and evaluations, Ibn Hajar al-Haytami’s (d. 974/1567) work called al-Minah al-Makkiyah fî Sharh al-Hamziyah has a significant impact on the literature in this field. In this work, Ibn Hajar used Khayr Al-Qira as one of the main sources. In this research, in which both works will be analyzed comparatively in terms of content, method and style, Khayr Al-Qira is considered important since it annotates the eulogy by separating it into subjects, and includes explanations related to prosody and rhyme, also involves lexicon analysis. Therefore, it can be said that Jawjarî’s work is written in a concise style but is within the scope of educational-instructional annotations. On the other hand, it is understood that in Ibn Hajar’s annotation, detailed terminology explanations, the analysis carried out by giving the name of several sources/authors, and the researcher-analyst method that is followed are at the forefront. In this respect, Ibn Hajar’s work can be accepted in the category of annotations written in an encyclopedic style. It is concluded that al-Minah al-Makkiyah is an integral part of Khayr Al-Qira in terms of their relationship and characteristics.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zahir ASLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Trabzon İlahiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tid/issue/70854/895390
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1633174
