Makale Başlığı: The Position and Importance of BYEGM in The History of Turkish Public Diplomacy
Özet: Public diplomacy is a communication activity that directly affects, determines and shapes the existing relations between states. Public diplomacy has strengthened its importance in the international arena since the 2000s. Countries are trying to rise to an advantageous position in the international axis by allocating significant resources to public diplomacy. "Public diplomacy", which entered the literature for the first time as a concept in 1965, was expressed with different words in earlier periods. Public diplomacy also has a long history in Turkey. Turkey is one of the first states in the world to initiate public diplomacy practices. In particular, the work of the Irshad Council, which was established during the years of the National Struggle, should be evaluated within the framework of public diplomacy. The word "guidance", which is defined as "showing the right way, warning" in terms of its dictionary meaning, exactly overlaps with the understanding of "based on facts and truths", which is the basic principle in the understanding of public diplomacy. In this context, Turkey, which has a tradition of public diplomacy since the National Struggle period, has started to give more importance to this field since the 2000s and has developed and strengthened its bureaucratic structure in this context. The General Directorate of Press, Broadcasting and Information (BYEGM) is an organization that started its activities on June 7, 1920 under the name of General Directorate of Press and Intelligence, right after the establishment of the Council of Irshad, and has an important and strategic position in the history of Turkey's public diplomacy. BYEGM continued its duty until 2018 with different names and different structures within its historical development. BYEGM was closed with the Decree Law No. 703 published in the Official Gazette dated 9 July 2018 and numbered 30473, and the Directorate of Communications was established in its place. In this article, the importance and position of BYEGM in terms of public diplomacy between 1920 and 2018 has been tried to be revealed. In this context, the data obtained from the minutes of the Parliament between the years 1920-2010 with the content/data scanning technique were analyzed and evaluated with the qualitative analysis method.
Yazar isimleri: ['Serhan KOYUNCU']
Yayın Yılı: 17 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Gümüşhane Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gumus/issue/73042/1067845
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2231226
