Makale Başlığı: Exploring the Effect of Video Games on Gifted Children’s Spatial Orientation and Entrepreneurial Skills / Video Oyunlarının Üstün Yetenekli Çocukların Mekânsal Yönelim ve Girişimcilik Becerileri Üzerindeki Etkisinin Belirlenmesi
Özet: The present study aimed to examine the effect of video games on gifted children’s spatial orientation and entrepreneurial skills. An embedded mixed methods design was utilized to conduct the study. A randomized control group design was used in the quantitative part of the research, and a case study design was used in the qualitative part. The study was conducted with 21 volunteer secondary school students receiving supportive education at a science and art center. The experimental group comprised 10 students while the control group included 11 students. The data were collected through “Spatial Orientation Test”, “Entrepreneurship Scale for Secondary School Students”, and “Weekly Progress Form”. Additionally, the game profiles and career progress of each student were photographed at the end of each session. The students in the experimental group played the Euro Truck Simulator 2 video game for six weeks. No statistically significant difference was found between the pre-test and post-test scores of the gifted children in the experimental and control groups. Furthermore, no statistically significant difference was not found between pre-test and post-test scores of the gifted children in the experimental group. These results show that the activities undertaken in the experimental and control groups did not lead to a significant difference in the spatial orientation and entrepreneurial skills of the gifted students. Qualitative findings revealed that gifted children mostly preferred to save the money they earn, did not take risks and preferred to carry products with low-risk transportation. These results show that risk-taking sub-behavior, which is one of the most important indicators of entrepreneurial skill, was not shown. It is seen that the quantitative findings were supported by the qualitative findings. Further research might examine the effect of increasingly challenging non-routine tasks that enable gifted children to fulfill their true potential on their entrepreneurial and spatial skills and results can be compared.
Yazar isimleri: ['Eyüp YILMAZ', 'Yıldız YILDIRIM', 'Alaattin ARIKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: e-Uluslararası Eğitim Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://www.e-ijer.com/tr/pub/issue/73267/1150405
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2563510
