Makale Başlığı: ISTANBUL FESTIVAL OF ARCHITECTURE: CHAOTIC LEAKS
Özet: Landscape architecture is the basic professional discipline that builds relationships between living things in open spaces. The social, physical, cultural and ecological variables that exist in open spaces are changing day by day and gaining a new quality with developing technology, changing social structure and ecological deterioration. Following the dynamic structure of the profession can be possible by looking at the relations between the variables from different perspectives. The Istanbul Architecture Festival, aiming to generate new ideas about the city by sector representatives and citizens, was held in 2020. Istanbul University-Cerrahpaşa Landscape Architecture Student Club (PEMÖT) participated in the Campus Microphone section, which allowed different student clubs to participate in the festival. Within the scope of Campus Microphone, various questions were asked to the local administrations, experts and society about the issues that have not yet been resolved or are not on the agenda. Why Landscape Architecture Is Not Horticulture? Ecological Crisis in the City Center and Its Peripheries, Separations, Urban Citizens Ignored in Space, Hostile Architecture in Open Spaces, Post-War Landscape Readings, etc. These issues, which have not yet reached a clear answer, are gathered under the title of "Chaotic Leaks", divided into various sub-titles and examined in detail. These sub-titles were determined respectively as the development process of landscape architecture based on the definition of landscape, the differentiating crises in the city center and the periphery of the city, and their effects, homelessness and hostile architecture, space memory and urbicide, and questions were asked at the end of each section.. As a result, it is aimed that the questions asked to different stakeholders under each heading will create a new research question.
Yazar isimleri: ['Elif Nur SARI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: PEYZAJ
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/peyzaj/issue/71056/1125095
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2462856
