Makale Başlığı: MOSCOW ARCHİVE AND LİBRARY GUİDE FOR BEGİNNERS
Özet: Russian archives have an important place among the written sources of General Turkish History studies. For this reason, in our study, we aim to guide social scientists in general, and in particular historians, who aim to conduct research in the archives in Moscow, but also aim to provide an idea for all researchers about the working discipline of the archives in Moscow. In this case, our study is a kind of guide for historians to be able to access the archive, register and recognize the catalogs without wasting time. It is also designed to guide the researchers and graduate students who plans to execute archival studies on Russian History and Russian-Turkic relations.  The idea of preparing such a paper guide has emerged as a result of the difficulties encountered during the archive work we conducted in Moscow. The foreign literature in this field shows that many articles are written, especially for British, German and Russian historians, as a guide to Moscow archives. The content of the articles that we have mentioned provides a wide range of information including access to archives, registration process and, funds. In this article, considering that it is essential for Turkish researchers to have information about archives in order to use scholarship and project funds more effectively, a guide has been tried to be presented in order to contribute to the completion of their research in a short time.  	Moscow has many archives such as State Archive of Russian Federation (Гарф), The Russian State Archive of Economy (Ргаэ), Russian State Archive of Social and Political History (Ргаспи), Russian State Military Archive (Ргва), Russian State Film Archive (Гфкрф). In this study, it has been tried to enlighten and elaborate on many issues, such as the registration process to those referential centers which are considered as primary sources for Russian History and Russian-Turkic relations, transportation, working conditions in the archives, and how to access the details of the catalog information. It is important to benefit from libraries and institutes as well as archives for historical research in Moscow. Russian State Library (Ргб), Russian Historical Library (гпиб), and German History Institute are leading centers for historians and researchers in Moscow. For this purpose, useful information about the working conditions of libraries and research institutes, the opportunities they offer to researchers, as well as details of project and scholarship opportunities are given. It is possible to list other archives among the centers that researchers can use such as, Russian State Archive of Literature and Art (Ргали), Foreign Policy of the Russian Federation (АВП РФ), Foreign Policy of Russian Empire (авп рф), Russian State Archive of Recent History (Ргани).  In this study, it is aimed to guide graduate, doctoral students and senior researchers on benefiting from archives and libraries as effortlesly as possible who will conduct research for the first time on the basis of archives, libraries and institutes in Moscow.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Önder DURAN']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Genel Türk Tarihi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gttad/issue/71320/1079259
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2275707
