Makale Başlığı: The Effectiveness Of Field Trips Carried Out With Parents In Social Studies Course
Özet: Various researches in the literature reveal that field trips are one of the most effective methods that can be used in the education process, but these activities cannot be done as much as necessary due to various reasons in current conditions. Based on this problem, which constitutes the starting point of the current research, the effectiveness of the field trips carried out with the parents during the implementation phase with the planning and guidance of the teacher in cases where the field trips could not be carried out by the teachers for various reasons were investigated. In order to reveal the efficiency of the field trips carried out with the parents, a comparison was made with the field trips carried out with the teacher in various aspects (motivation, attitude, awareness and academic success). In the research, a quasi-experimental design with pretest-posttest control group was used. The sample group consists of 113 fifth grade students studying in the central district of Kilis in the fall semester of the 2019-2020 academic year. The sample group consists of two experimental and a control groups in a public secondary school selected by purposive sampling method. Experimental Group 1 (EG1) carried out the field trips with their parents, and Experimental Group 2 (EG2) carried out the field trips with their teacher. Data collection tools were applied to all groups as both pre-test and post-test, and SPSS 22.0 was used in the analysis of the data. As a result, it was determined that the field trips carried out both in the company of the teacher and accompanied by the parents increased the motivation and attitudes of the students towards the social studies course. There was no statistically significant difference between EG1 and EG2 students in terms of students' attitudes towards scientific field trips, awareness of cultural heritage and academic achievement. Based on the findings of the present study, it is thought that in cases where it is not possible to carry out the field trips by the teachers, it can be used as an alternative to carry out these trips with the planning and guidance of the teacher and accompanied by the parents.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yılmaz DEMİR', 'Seçil ŞENYURT']
Yayın Yılı: 11 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Milli Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/milliegitim/issue/73393/954370
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1831647
