Makale Başlığı: An Issue of Polemic Between DP and CHP Within the Framework of Hydraulic Works Policies: Seyhan Dam
Özet: Democratic Party (DP), which came into power after the elections of the 14th of May 1950, had critisized especially between 1937-1950 hydraulic works policies of Republican People’s Party (CHP) due to its inefficiency. This approach had reached such a point that even DP shaped its own hydraulic works policies within the framework of accomplishing the incompleted hydraulic works of CHP government. Seyhan region was also taken by CHP within the scope of hydraulic works, and some research, project and constructing activities were realized. However, these works could not be enough to prevent the harms occured due to inundation; futhermore, an efficient irrigation network could not be established. Therefore, CHP government had an international firm perform a research in 1949 for constructing dam on Seyhan River. Nevertheless, losing the elections, CHP could not find time to put this project in practice. DP government which came to power in these circumtances removed the obstacles before the finance necessary for the project, thanks to the effort of Prime Minister Adnan Menderes. It convinced the İnternational Bank for Reconstruction an Development. Following the afore-mentioned developments, the Seyhan Dam was built in order to prevent damages in Çukurova, which is frequently exposed to floods, to establish an efficient irrigation system and to generate electricity cheaply. Seyhan Dam became an issue of many discussions both in preparation and construction periods, as well as after the service process, especially events between DP and CHP turned out to be a polemic in meantime. CHP blame DP government for exploiting Seyhan Dam for making people forget the works done in its term and doing propaganda. On the other hand DP government accused CHP of not seeing and protesting the works done. The reality that was overshadowed by the process of discussions is that a project initiated by CHP was completed and put into service by DP.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ömer METE']
Yayın Yılı: 16 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Ondokuz Mayıs Üniversitesi İnsan Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/insanbilimleri/issue/73901/1192446
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2722231
