Makale Başlığı: Kalmyk Expressions In The Epic Of Manas
Özet: In this article, Kalmyk expressions in Epic of Manas are examined. Radloff variant and Orozvakov variant of Manas were used for analysis. First of all, Mongolian-Kalmyk conversations in the epic were determined and it was shown how the speeches were translated by the epic. Then, the real relationship between these speeches and the translations made in Mongolian-Kalmyk was examined. Then, the Mongolian-Kalmyk concepts in the text were determined and their meaning, context and accuracy in the epic were evaluated. When the words in the epic texts and which are claimed to be Kalmyk are examined one by one, it is seen that there are few Kalmyk words that are constantly repeated. It has been determined that some of these words are Kalmyk words that have been affected by the Kyrgyz pronunciation features. It has been understood that some of them are meaningless words derived by imitating the tone of Kalmyk. Although Mongolian, Kalmyk and Chinese words are more frequently used in the Orozbakov variant, it is seen that the Mongolian-Kalmyk dialogues are shorter and consist of the same few words. Similar words with the Radloff variant in the dialogues in the Orozbakov variant are completely different in context. While the most preferred words in Mongolian-Kalmyk dialogues are the battle cry in the Orozbakov variant, the phrases related to greeting in the Radloff variant. In the Orozbakov variant, a wide terminology is included in daily life, military-administrative structure and religious life, which is claimed to be Mongolian-Kalmyk. Although this Mongolian-Kalmyk speech and concepts are not used appropriately and often mean nothing, at least it shows that the epic is not unfamiliar with the Mongolian-Kalmyk tone. This situation is very important in terms of being a reflection of ethnic contacts in Central Asia.
Yazar isimleri: ['Raşit ÇÖLOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Belgü
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/belgu/issue/60401/1103083
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2372753
