Makale Başlığı: HOW DID SPECIAL EDUCATION SCHOOL PRINCIPALS MANAGE THE DISTANCE EDUCATION PROCESS IN THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC?
Özet: Today, it is inevitable for educational leaders to adopt new roles and change behavior in the distance education process, where social and educational interaction is transferred to the virtual environment. For this reason, school principals need to adjust themselves against the negativities that may arise related to the distance education process that may arise regarding the individual learning styles and speeds of the students together with the technology. The aim of this research is to reveal how special education school administrators manage the distance education process from their own views. In this study, which was designed as a phenomenological research, the interview method was used. The participants consist of the administrators of special education schools at all levels (n=6) in the Central District of Sivas Province. Data were collected using a semi-structured interview form developed by the researchers. The findings were subjected to descriptive analysis using the MAXQDA 20 qualitative data analysis program. Difficulties are experienced in the management of the unexpected and unprepared process, services such as service and meals cannot be arranged as a result of the continuous opening and closing of schools, students cannot follow the lessons due to technological inadequacies, parents are limited in ensuring student interest and participation, teachers have difficulty in providing motivation, problems in supervising teaching activities are important factors of the research. one of the findings. In addition, in this process, findings related to the positive effects of the process, such as the increased cooperation between administrators, teachers and parents, and the understanding of the role of parents in the education of their children, were obtained by using alternative communication channels effectively. The findings were discussed in line with the related literature. It is anticipated that this study will contribute to advanced applications and research on this subject.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yasin ARI', 'Fadime İŞCEN KARASU', 'Hilal KAHRAMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 19 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Sivas Cumhuriyet Üniversitesi Eğitim Bilimleri Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cebed/issue/73073/1162961
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2600051
