Makale Başlığı: Reasons Preventing Refusal from Grant in Islamic Law  (Ottoman Application)
Özet: In Islamic law, there are detailed provisions regarding the grant, which is a manifestation of the benevolence that people have in their nature. The sects have different opinions about the establishment and validity conditions of the grant contract, which is defined as immediately assigning a property to someone else without compensation, whether it is possible to recourse from the grant, and if recourse is possible, under which conditions the grant can be withdrawn. Hanafis, by emphasizing the donation aspect of the grant contract, think that the donor still has the authority to dispose of that property as long as he does not receive a return. Therefore, according to them, a person can legally withdraw from his grant, even if it is not morally appropriate. However, seven situtions prevent the Hanafis from returning from the grant that has been received. The public, on the other hand, likens the grant contract to the sale contract and thinks that it is a binding contract. For this reason, they are of the opinion that it is not legally permissible to return the grants other than the grants made by the father and, in some cases, by the mother to her child. Hanafi sect was accepted as the official sect in the Ottoman Empire and court decisions were taken accordingly. In this study, it has been tried to determine how much the Hanafi sect’s opinions were followed or not in the issue of returning from grants, based on the Ottoman period fatwas and court decisions. As a result, it has been determined that the views of tha Hanafi sect were applied in the fatwa and court decisions examined in the Ottoman period regarding the issue of refusal from grants. It is hoped that our study will make a modest contribution to the history of Islam and Ottoman law, in particular, on the subject of returning from grants.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet KOÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Darulhadis İslami Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/darulhadisdergisi/issue/70882/1138370
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2517154
