Makale Başlığı: Effectiveness of Industrial Intervention in Turkey: Cliometric Analysis of Fixed Capital Investments in the Mining Industry (1936-1950)
Özet: Mining has been an economic activity whose importance is increasing day by day as a driving force behind industrialization since ancient times. The Industrial Revolution owes its historically striking changes to the developments in the field of mining. The activities carried out in the field of mining are also of great importance in terms of effective use of domestic resources and reducing foreign dependency in energy, beyond their contribution to the industrialization process. The main purpose of the statist policies that started in the 1930s in the economic history of Turkey is to ensure industrialization. Mining activities had an important place in line with the interventionist policies that started with the establishment of the republic with the focus of industrialization. During the 1936-1950 period covering the study, Etibank was the only institution representing the state in the mining sector. Beyond this authority of representation, the production activities carried out by the institution in the field of mining constituted 100% of the total mine production in Turkey. In this context, Etibank contributed to industrial development both institutionally in terms of industrial intervention and with the mining activities it undertook. In the study, the efficiency of Etibank on economic growth has been tried to be tested by using data on fixed capital investments belonging to Etibank, which represents industrial interventionism. Unfinished Facilities and Facility Costs, Establishment and Enterprise Capital and Subsidiaries covering the period 1936-1950 were calculated as fixed capital investments; Autoregressive Distribution Delayed (ARDL) bounds test model was used to investigate the long-term relationship between variables. The empirical findings support the conclusion that industrial interventionism has a positive effect on economic growth.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bengü DOĞANGÜN YASA', 'Mehmet Emin YARDIMCI', 'Rıdvan KARACAN']
Yayın Yılı: 16 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Cumhuriyet Üniversitesi İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://esjournal.cumhuriyet.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/71333/1131888
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2491184
