Makale Başlığı: Words Containing Semantics Belonging to the Conceptual Field of "Deception" in the Compilation Dictionary (Derleme Sözlüğü)
Özet: Deception, conceptually has a meaning of “enable somebody to be deceived; to make somebody believe something”. On the other hand the notions like “to cheat (or deceive), to lie, deception” enters the conceptual domain of “to deceive”. In this study, foremost, the words that fall into the notion of deception will be confirmed. The Compilation Dictionary will be browsed and the items used as semantic units will be determined. Then an evaluation will be made on the structures that indicate “deception” in Anatolian dialects. For instance, in the Compilation Dictionary, for the verb abuḫlamaḫ “deceiving”, for the verb eğiltmek “deceiving, making people believe, convince somebody that what you say is true” and for the verb hoytuklamak “deceiving, cheating” is given as equivalents. Tora çekmek is a compound verb structure formed by the combination of a noun and a verb and in the mentioned dictionary it is “to deceive, ambush”. Likewise, çivi kıvratmak is “play, plot, intrigue”, then reduplication example of ayın oyun is “trick, intrigue, plot, cheat” and the compound word of ağzı kara is “defamer” in the same dictionary. The word “deception” has a wide field of concept. In the Compilation Dictionary, 438 of the concepts included in the concept field of deception are semantics; 135 of them express the meaning of deception with other semantics apart from these concepts which makes a total of 573 items. The concepts which are evaluated in the conceptual field of deception, have contributed meaning to the Dictionary sometimes separately sometimes in combination. Thus, while emphasizing the importance of semantics that provide the full meaning of a word in the study, the wealth of Turkish vocabulary will be revealed based on the concept of deception.
Yazar isimleri: ['Özgül ÖZBEK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Dil Araştırmaları
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dilarastirmalari/issue/73633/1158658
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2582818
