Makale Başlığı: Turkey's Fight Against Migrant Smuggling And An Evaluation On Syrian Irregular Migrants
Özet: The concept of migration has embodied differences in terms of reasons and application forms since its emergence. It is an undeniable reality that the irregular migration movement carried out using illegal methods paves the way for the crime of migrant smuggling. Since the proclamation of the Republic, Turkey has been a part of the migration circulation as a source, transit and destination country. When the data of recent years in Turkey are examined, the number of irregular migrants and the number of migrant smugglers caught have increased remarkably. The civil war that broke out in Syria undoubtedly affected Turkey deeply. Turkey opened its doors to civilians who were harmed by the civil war in Syria in 2011 and took them under temporary protection. In this process, due to both the civil war in Syria and Turkey's encounter with an intense mass migration, the migrations followed an irregular form. Those who organize irregular migration for their economic interests have been the subject of the crime of migrant smuggling. In the study, possible analyzes of the increasing migrant smuggling activities in the light of Turkey's fight against migrant smuggling and the developments in Syria after 2011 were made. Especially after 2011, the wave of irregular migration from Syria to Turkey and the effect of Syrians on the increase in crime of migrant smuggling were evaluated. Turkey has developed various practices to combat migrant smuggling and prevent crime, as well as national and international legal regulations, to ensure border security. In order to achieve stable and successful progress in this field, it is thought that the reasons that pave the way for migrant smuggling should be eliminated and the existing regulations should be revised. Establishing a peaceful order in the country of origin that respects human rights is considered as a factor that will provide long-term benefits in the prevention of migrant smuggling crime. This study has been prepared in the light of data obtained by using literature review and document review techniques. In addition, the study includes the interpretation of the statistical data of the Immigration Administration, the Gendarmerie General Command and the Coast Guard Command.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yıldız UZAN', 'Derya AKGÜL']
Yayın Yılı: 23 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Fırat Üniversitesi Uluslararası İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/fuuiibfdergi/issue/70477/1082357
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2287955
