Makale Başlığı: Music and Legitimacy: An Analysis Through Theories of Legitimacy
Özet: Under the umbrella of legitimacy, it is possible to deal with many diverse subjects -politics, polities, governments, authorities, institutions, status hierarchies, and wealth inequalities. There is literature in philosophy, political science, sociology, and particularly organization studies with social psychology that deals with these subjects elaborately. Although music is appropriate enough to be considered as a legitimacy object, musical literature (musicology, ethnomusicology, music education, etc.) often uses legitimacy only in reference to the recognition and approval of authorities parallel to its lexical meaning. This position indicates that regardless of what legitimacy means in music, at the commonsense level it is gratified. This paper therefore aims to reveal what legitimacy means in music and its types from a theoretical perspective. Studies that comprehend legitimacy at the commonsense level are insufficient in exposing how legitimacy occurs and the power relations that underlie it. This is accompanied by ambiguity about what legitimacy refers to at the conceptual level. Although limited and operational in nature, studies based on known legitimacy theories are clear and more functional. Studies that match the theme of “music and legitimacy” in the musical field within the framework of sociology, organization studies, and social psychology legitimacy theories and aim to develop original approaches are few and their theoretical level limited. Thus, this paper further aims to more directly convert current legitimacy theories into the musical field and discuss musical legitimacy and its types more comprehensively while also taking those commonsense level studies within this theme into consideration. First, as Zelditch refers to them, the four fundamental theoretical approaches of legitimacy -classical theories, consensus theories, conflict theories, and mixed strategies- are emphasized. Later, the basic approaches that Suddaby et al., who primarily focused on organization studies literature, which configure legitimacy as “legitimacy as property”, “legitimation as process”, and “legitimacy as perception” are discussed. In this context, the answers to questions “What is legitimacy?”, “Where does it occur?” and “How does it occur?” are sought. Finally, in the light of existing theories and in parallel with evaluation of studies within the theme of “music and legitimacy”, musical legitimacy and its types are analyzed and conceptualized.
Yazar isimleri: ['Selim TAN']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Porte Akademik Müzik ve Dans Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/porteakademik/issue/72462/1111056
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2405529
