Makale Başlığı: Understanding Purchasing Behavior in Online Shopping: Comparison of Decision-Making Styles for Clothing and Technology Products
Özet: While deciding on the product or service to be purchased in online shopping, consumption styles come to the forefront as much as the wishes and needs of the consumer. In this context, since online shopping has its characteristics, traditional shopping decision-making styles are different from online shopping decision-making styles. Therefore, this study aims to examine the effect of online purchasing styles on online purchase intention. The research applied online decision-making styles to clothing and technology products. It also investigated whether different impacts on online purchase intention were observed in these product groups. The research sample was selected by convenience sampling, and individuals with various sociodemographic characteristics who bought two different product groups were included in the study. The research data were obtained from consumers who shop online by online survey method. Confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) and structural equation modeling (SEM) was used to analyze the data of 380 participants. SPSS 24 was used to create descriptive statistics, and SmartPLS 3 was used for SEM analysis. The results revealed that high-quality, become buying habit conscious consumer, website content conscious consumer, and website interface conscious consumer decision-making styles positively affect online purchase intention (p<0.001). The results showed that high-quality, become buying habit conscious consumer and website interface conscious consumer decision-making styles in the clothing products category affected online purchase intention (p<0.001). Only website interface conscious consumer decision-making style in the technology products was found to have a statistically significant effect on online purchase intention (p<0.001).
Yazar isimleri: ['Metin SAYGILI', 'Yahya YAZICI']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: İktisadi İdari ve Siyasal Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iktisad/issue/72676/1161494
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2594320
