Makale Başlığı: The Impact of Five Factor Personality Traits on Conflict Management Strategies
Özet: The main purpose of this study is to examine the interaction between personality traits and conflict management strategies. The sample group of the questionnaire, which was conducted for the interaction between the variables of the study, consists of white and blue-collar workers. The survey was applied to the workplace operating in Istanbul province in different business lines. Since 36 of the data obtained by 412 volunteers included extreme data, they were not included in the sample. Analyzes were conducted over 376 valid questionnaires. As a result of the analyzes; It has been determined that personality has an explanatory effect on conflict management strategies. When the explanation percentages of the integration sub-dimension of conflict management strategies and sub-dimensions of the five-factor personality variable are examined, it is proved that there are other influential factors. However, it is commented that the sub-dimension of responsibility is most effective in terms of the percentage of disclosure. It is seen that the effect of the neuroticism sub-dimension could not be determined in this interaction. The effect of the compromise sub-dimension was found to be 35.9%. It was determined that the effect of extraversion was not detected in this interaction. In this interaction, it was determined that the sub-dimension with the highest explanatory effect was responsibility. The effect of the domination sub-dimension was found to be 90.5%. It was determined that each sub-dimension of personality, except for the neuroticism sub-dimension, has an explanatory effect in interaction. It has been determined that the most effective personality trait is openness to responsibility and experience. According to the findings, it was determined that the 63.7% change in the sub-dimension of avoiding conflict management strategies was dependent on the independent variable. When the values of β are examined, it can be interpreted that the sub-dimensions that have the effect of conflict management strategies are each sub-dimension other than compatibility, but when the percentages of the sub-dimensions of responsibility and neuroticism are examined, it can be interpreted that the sub-dimensions with the highest explanatory effect are. According to the findings, it was determined that 59.6% change in the consensus sub-dimension of conflict management strategies depends on the independent variable. According to the data, the regression model was found to be statistically significant except for the responsibility and openness to experience sub-dimension. Correlation analysis results; It showed that there is a significant relationship between both variables. When the relationship between each of the sub-dimensions of the five factor personality variable is examined; All dimensions were found to be positively correlated with each other, except for the neuroticism sub-dimension. When the relationship between the sub-dimensions of conflict management strategies is examined, it has been determined that each dimension has a positive correlation with each other.
Yazar isimleri: ['Özge TURHAN', 'Canan TİFTİK']
Yayın Yılı: 2 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: IBAD Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ibad/issue/64491/955563
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1835868
