Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of Quran Courses Curriculum (4-6 Age Group) in The Context of Affective Learning
Özet: The cognitive side of the learning is not enough to turn the knowledge into practice and to personalize the knowledge itself. Thus all students cannot effectively hug that knowledge. Personalization of almost all of the newly learned information and its implementation in practical life are possible when the affective learning is done besides the cognitive learning. It is known that affective learning is essential for religious education as much as all kinds of fields. Therefore it is necessary that the function and the importance of the affective learning methods in the pre-school education period which is a vital period of time for individuals’ learning outcomes should be reminded.Being one of the fundamental institutions of the Religious Affairs Presidency, Qur’an Courses that educate especially for 4-6 age group, answers were sought to the questions of what is the place of affective education and at what level affective goals are included. Achievements in the Qur'an Course Curriculum for the ages of 4-6 evaluated for affective. While conducting the research, the 4-6 Years Qur'an Course Curriculum was examined by content analysis method.As a result of the content analysis Qur’an Courses whose participants are 4-6 years of children not only target to improve the cognitive and psychomotor behaviors but also purpose to improve the affective, ethical, and religious patterns for their students. In addition to including affective elements in the general objectives of the 4-6 Years Qur'an Course Curriculum, it was concluded that more (81%) cognitive gains were expressed in unit acquisitions. Affective targets are included at a rate of 19% in unit acquisitions. In addition to the fact that the cognitive goals were in the majority, it was seen that some of the activities were aimed at affective gains. In addition, the learning area acquisitions of the Qur'an have been dealt with from a cognitive perspective. Considering the developmental characteristics of the preschool period, it is very important for students they develop a positive attitude towards reading the Qur'an, love to read it and be willing to read it as a priority rather than to learn a new alphabet and to acquire the skills of reading a text in a language different from their mother tongue. This can be considered as a situation that requires the curriculum to be reconsidered. Affective elements emphasizing the basic religious and moral values in the main achievements of the program will contribute to the students' development of positive attitudes towards religion awareness with the processing of the activities by emphasizing the affective elements and teachers awareness.
Yazar isimleri: ['Zeynep YÜKSEL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İnsan ve Toplum Bilimleri Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/itobiad/issue/72362/1114869
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2420461
