Makale Başlığı: EVALUATION OF SOME ISSUES RELATED TO THE USE OF THE TRADE NAME CONTRARY TO COMMERCIAL HONESTY
Özet: In case a trade name is used by another person contrary to commercial honesty, the TCC protects the proprietor. So as to determine the scope of this protection, the limits of “use contrary to the commercial honesty” should essentially be determined.The Ministry of Trade has published the Communiqué on Trade Names as a guide in this regard; and Art. 5, titled "Confusion", of the Communiqué, has determined the principles that enable trade names to be distinguished from each other. The most important of these principles is the provision in Art. 5/para. 3, which reveals how the Ministry of Trade and accordingly the Trade Registry Offices shall approach similar trade names. However, the concept of "being different" in the criterion of "the difference of the first phrase indicating the activity of undertaking", which ensures the distinctiveness according to the Communiqué, is of a nature that may cause hesitation. That is, would the only “spelling” difference for the first phase after the addition component be sufficient? Could terms with the same meaning be considered distinctive just because their spellings are different? For example, while "Harika Giyim Ticaret Anonim Şirketi" has been registered priorly, can "Harika Hazır Giyim Ticaret Anonim Şirketi" be registered subsequently? According to the evaluation of the example in question on the basis of the Art. 52 TCC, which prohibits "use contrary to commercial honesty", it is clear that the registration of the subsequent trade name shall not be allowed. Therefore, it would be appropriate to evaluate the criterion of "the difference of the first phrase indicating the activity of undertaking" in the Communiqué as expressing a phrase also includes the differentiation of the activity of undertaking. Indeed, interpreting and applying the provisions of the Communiqué in a way that does not result in "use contrary to commercial honesty", which is expressly prohibited in the TCC, would also be appropriate for the hierarchy of norms. Moreover, since there is a mandatory obligation to comply with the rule of good faith in all private law relations, it should be accepted as a requirement of both Art. 2 Turkish Civil Code and Art. 52 TCC that the merchant who chooses a trade name cannot use it contrary to commercial honesty.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 15 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Yeditepe Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yuhfd/issue/73070/1191426
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2717910
