Makale Başlığı: A Meta-Synthesis Study on Distance Science Education in COVID-19 Conditions in Turkey
Özet: Due to the epidemic that entered our lives in Turkey in 2020, face-to-face education activities have been moved to a different dimension through online and broadcast channels. The distance education approach is used to contribute to face-to-face education before the epidemic. However, due to the epidemic, distance education has been compulsory. During the epidemic, many studies have been carried out in different disciplines related to distance education. The fact that these studies are up-to-date and the number of them increase quantitatively has made meta-analysis studies important. The aim of this study is to synthesize the qualitative studies done in science education and gather them under a single roof with the compulsory distance education process during the COVID-19 epidemic period in Turkey. The method of the study was determined as meta-synthesis, one of the qualitative research methods. Meta-synthesis is the work of synthesizing and interpreting research on a particular topic by creating themes or matrices. Within the scope of this method, 14 qualitative articles about science education made in Turkey between 2020-2021 during the distance education period due to the COVID-19 epidemic were examined. The articles examined in the study were reached with the help of the "Google Scholar" search engine. These studies; publication year, subject area, research method, purpose, participants, data collection tools and research results. These variables are interpreted with the help of tables and graphs. The studies examined in this study showed that there are many problems in science education in the distance education process. It has been understood that these problems originate from students, teachers and parents. In addition, it has been determined that there are problems such as the lack of technological tools and equipment used in distance education, internet interruption and the low participation rate of the students. The results were interpreted and discussed within the framework of the purpose of the research, and some suggestions were made for future studies.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hasan BAKIRCI', 'Sinan KAYAR', 'Murat CANCAN', 'İsrafil TOZLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Eğitim Bilim ve Araştırma Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ebad/issue/72841/1148676
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2557137
