Makale Başlığı: Validity and Reliability of Adolescents Academic Inertia Scale
Özet: The aim of the current study is to conduct the validity and reliability studies of the Academic Inertia Scale for Adolescents (AAIS).  Inertia is that occurs from not adapting to the current situation, lack of motivation, insufficient self-control and lack of socializing. It has been stated that living in inertia is a result of the individual's preferences. Increasing academic expectations from adolescents causes fatigue in this process. In order for the adolescents to receive effective psychological support, this state of exhaustion and neglect must be first detected, evaluated, and necessary support provided. Based on the relevant knowledge in the literature, this situation is to be first evaluated and then inertia considered. However, in the literature, to our best knowledge, there is no valid and reliable measurement tool to determine inertia in adolescents. The development of the academic inertia scale will be effective in identifying and evaluating the adolescents' situation and making more research on this subject. The study group of the current research is composed of a total of 410 students (234 females and 176 males) attending high school in Konya in 2019-2020 school year and selected through the convenience sampling method. The factor structure of the scale was investigated with explanatory and confirmatory factor analyses and a five-dimensional construct explaining 46.96% of the total variance was obtained and the fit of this construct was found to be good.  In order to determine the reliability of the scale, internal consistency and test-retest reliability analyses were run and acceptable values showing that the scale is reliable were obtained. The findings of the current study was concluded that the Academic Inertia Scale for Adolescents is a reliable and valid scale that can be used in the process of determining the academic inertia level of high school students.
Yazar isimleri: ['Osman CIRCIR', 'Özlem TAGAY']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Mart 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Psychology and Educational Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/pes/issue/69240/1096587
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2345267
