Makale Başlığı: Fortune-telling, Qur’ānic Fortune-Telling and the Approaches of the Commentators to the Subject
Özet: Throughout the history, mankind has always wondered about the future. For this reason, he had the desire to learn about the events that could happen in the future and developed some techniques by applying various methods. Although these techniques vary according to time and place, the purpose has always been the same. Studies have determined that such techniques have emerged and developed simultaneously with the history of humanity. Fortune-telling, whose past is taken back thousands of years, is a practice that emerged as a result of the desire to learn about the future. Although there are many types of fortune-telling, the Qur’ān prohibits the type called “azlām”, which is done with arrows, which aims to direct any work that is desired to be done in the future. Although the word fortune-telling is not directly mentioned in the Qur’ān, since “azlām” translated as fortune-telling arrows is seen as a kind of fortune-telling, all similar applications have been evaluated within this scope. Since the motivation to wonder about the future is seen in almost every society. Different communities that converted to Islam could not abandon all of their previous beliefs at once, and the ways of reading the future have survived to the present day with new forms. Although these new forms differed according to time and space, it was observed that they were shaped by being influenced by each other as a result of the cultural exchanges of the societies. Coffee, flower, sand, liver, book fortune-telling, etc. can be given as an example. Each of these fortune-telling types can be divided into sections among themselves. Different meanings have been attributed to some of the books, which are very popular in the society, and fortune-tellings have been opened with them. This practice was named as book fortune- telling, and over time, the Qur’ān was also used for this purpose. The Qur’ānic fortune-telling, is considered as the most famous and the most common type of book fortune-telling. There are many tractates written on this subject and recorded in libraries. In fact, these works were named as Fāl-Nāme and Tafaulnāma, and since most of them are poetic works, they have been the subject of the research in the field of literature. Since it is forbidden to seek fortunes with fortune-telling arrows in the 3rd and 90th verses of the Sūra al-Māidah, this issue has also been discussed in the commentaries. It was thought that it would be useful to discuss this issue in order to reveal the perspectives of the commentators, since tafsir with the Qur’ān was discussed and opinions were expressed in favor and against it, in the tafsir that can be considered as little according to the breadth of the tafsir literature. It was seen that there was no evaluation on this subject in tafsir books until the 6th century Hijri. In later periods, while some of the commentators who dealt with the subject were completely opposed to tafaul with the Qur’ān, some commentators approached the subject with caution. While the commentators who associate tafaul with the Qur’ān with the effort to be clear of the unseen, think that the Qur'ān cannot be used for such purposes; the commentators, who consider it as an effort to learn what is good from Allah's book, did not oppose tafaul. Some contemporary commentators, on the other hand, have said that it is never right to act with delusion and suspicion, based on the value Islam gives to reason, and they did not accept such a practice unconditionally. While dealing with the subject, after giving brief information about fortune-telling and Fāl-Nāme, the approaches of the commentators on Qur’ānic fortune-telling or tafaul with the Qur’ān will be discussed. Since some of the mushafs published in Iran have fortune-telling tables at the end, some tafsirs from the classical and contemporary periods, which are seen as belonging to Shi‘a, were also scanned. While considering these approaches, the commentaries were scanned by paying attention to the chronology, and it was tried to determine when this subject was included in the agenda of the commentators.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Selim AYDAY']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kocatepe İslami İlimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kiid/issue/73811/1176495
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2655674
