Makale Başlığı: THE HİSTORİCAL WORKS İN KOKAND KNATE İN THE FİRST HALF OF THE XIX. CENTURY
Özet: The Kokand Khanate, which was separated from the Bukhara Khanate in 1709 and established in the Fergana Valley under the leadership of the Ming tribe of the Uzbeks, withdrew from the historical scene in 1876 with the Russian occupation. The Khanate of Kokand played important roles in political, economic and cultural events in Turkestan for over 163 years. Kokand manuscripts are of great importance in illuminating the history of the Kokand Khanate, which ruled in the Fergana Valley and Kazakh steppes for more than a century and a half. Histography in the Kokand Khanate began in the first half of the XIX century. The historical sources written in this period were written upon the special requests of the rulers. I will also process the notification that the first of the historical sources in the first half of the  XIX century is Emirnâme and it was written during the reign of Alim Khan (1799-1809). Historiography accelerated during the reign of his brother Ömer Khan (1809-1822), who took the throne after a coup d'etat against Alim Khan. The history books named Ömernâme and Şahname-i Nüsret Pâyâm, which describe the era of Ömer Khan, were written by the famous poets of the period. The work called Vâkıât-ı Muhammed Ali Han, which was started to be written by his teacher Cihan Atın (Üveysi) to describe the period of Muhammed Ali Khan (1822-1842), who came to the throne after Ömer Han, could not be completed due to the death of its author. Muntakhab Al-Tawarikh written by Alim Khan and Ömer Khan's nephew, Hakimhan Töre, who is a member of the East Turkistan Hodja family, is one of the main sources describing the periods of Alim Khan, Ömer Khan, Muhammed Ali Khan and Şirali Khan (1842-1845). Shahnâme-i Divane Mutrib, which tells about the murder of Muhammad Ali Khan by the Emir of Bukhara Nasrullah in 1842 and the events that followed, has emerged as a new epic example in Kokand historiography. Şahname-i Divane Andalib, which is a continuation of the events described in Şahname-i Divane Mutrib and written in the same style, tells about the heroism of Şirali Khan and his liberation of the Kokand Khanate from the captivity of the Bukhara Emirate.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hüseyin ŞEN']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: İran ve Turan Tarihi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/irtad/issue/70598/1012699
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2038276
