Makale Başlığı: BIBLIOGHRAFY OF ANTEP DEFENSE
Özet: Shortly after the signing of the Armistice of Mudros on October 30, 1918, the Entente States launched a major invasion movement in Anatolia. This occupation movement, which started from Istanbul, gradually engulfed the whole of Anatolia. In this context, England, who wanted to realize its ambitions, occupied Antep on 17 December 1918. About a year later, the city was handed over to France within the framework of the agreements between England and France. Thus, under the occupation of the French, Antep began the long-prepared resistance that would last for months. He fought not only with the French forces equipped with superior technology, but also with a serious hunger and shortage of ammunition. Despite all these impossibilities, the people of Antep, who resisted the French occupation for about 11 months, fell silent on February 9, 1921, due to the terrible hunger and lack of food. As a result of the Ankara Treaty signed with the French on October 21, 1921, it got rid of the occupation on December 25, 1921 and regained its independence.Many publications have been made about the Antep Defense, which has an important place in the history of the National Struggle. In recent years, it is seen that the number of scientific researches on Antep Defense has started to increase. With the increase in research, the diversity of topics has also increased.Thus, a serious corpus was formed. From this point of view, in this study, the bibliography of Antep Defense has been tried to be created. It is aimed to reveal a background in order not to repeat the studies to be done as a result of the study and to emphasize the deficiencies as a result of the table reached. In this context, while creating the bibliography, scientific and Gaziantep-axised journals, newspapers and books were scanned and studies were tried to be determined.
Yazar isimleri: ['Halil İbrahim YAKAR', 'Ali GEZGİNCİ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Gaziantep Üniversitesi Ayıntab Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gunaad/issue/67558/1048588
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2159786
