Makale Başlığı: Homeland Types in Terms of Expeditionary Provisions
Özet: The religion of Islam has provided many conveniences for those who travel, as it does in all matters. The conveniences provided for travelers are explained in detail in our fiqh books, as in many other matters. These conveniences are; it can be summarized as performing the four-rak'ah prayers as two rak'ahs, leaving the fasts to compensation in case of traveling in Ramadan, decreasing the necessity of Friday and Eid prays, increasing the time of wiping on the meskats to three days and three nights, and being able to receive zakat even if he has money in his hometown. In order for these conveniences to be realized, it should be known what conditions the place of departure and the destination must meet. Hanafis generally determined the place of residence of a person as permanent residence and temporary residence and stated that the provisions of the expedition would be realized by leaving these two places. Other scholars of sect also say that the expedition will only begin by leaving the place of residence. However, in cases where it is necessary or not necessary to intend to reside, or if the residence period is shorter or longer than a certain period, considering that the two places contain different provisions, it is understood that the division made by the Hanafis is more manageable. For this reason, in our study, the types of homeland will be covered according to Hanafis, and the views of other sects will be included when appropriate.In the works of Islamic law, the types of homeland are generally handled under the heading of the pray of guests. Hanafis mentioned three different types of places in terms of shortening prays or not; Maliki, Shafii and Hanbali sects, on the other hand, made a distinction between places where prays can be shortened and where they cannot be shortened, and they dealt with expeditionary issues according to these two places. However, according to Maliki, Shafi'i and Hanbalis, it is more virtuous for the traveler to shorten the prayer, but it is not obligatory. For this reason, it is important to know the types of homeland in order to clarify where prayer should be shortened and where it is not.
Yazar isimleri: ['Abdullah ERDEM']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Kafkas Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kafkasilahiyat/issue/68762/1076160
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2263820
