Makale Başlığı: The Study of Post-Harvest Cereal Practices and Socio-Economic Impacts of Chemicals Used For Grain Storage In Morocco
Özet: This study was conducted to characterize farmers' post-harvest conservation practices and identify the different storage structures, the main pests of cereals in stock, as well as the mode of application of insecticides to protect seeds against pests infestations. To identify these practices, we have prepared a questionnaire answering the main characteristics of the population of the three provinces. The grain storage structures in our region vary depending on the locality and the quantity of seeds stored. These structures play an essential role in grain conservation in reducing post-harvest losses. There are several traditional techniques for storing cereals, such as traditional granaries, which represent most used structure by respondents (59.46%). Unfortunately, 40% of farmers surveyed say they sell their crops because of the financial pressure is the fear of damage during storage. The main pests responsible for losses are seed weevils (Sitophilus granarius), tribolium (Tribolium castaneum (Herbst) or Tribolium confusum), and cereal alucites (Sitotroga cerealella) with a percentage of 72%, 22%, and 6% respectively. However, the use of synthetic insecticides continues to be the major solution used for seed protection. However, our results revealed that the use, the doses, and the precautions of use of these insecticides are not respected, only 20% of the people surveyed know that there is a possibility a risk of intoxication by insecticides. The study shows that respondents are mishandling and overusing insecticides to protect cereals from pest infestations. This information is essential to recognize the origin of food poisoning among consumers and the worrying health risks humans.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hanane LOUGRAIMZI', 'Abdelaaziz BOUAICHI', 'Fatima EBICH']
Yayın Yılı: 13 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Tekirdağ Ziraat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jotaf/issue/72560/895224
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1632580
