Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of the Effectiveness of MiCReCoRe Practices on the Professional Development of Pre-Service Teachers
Özet: The aim of this study is to determine the views of pre-service science teachers regarding the MiCReCoRe (enriched microteaching with creative teaching techniques, reflective practices and content represantations) practices to improve their pedagogical content knowledge within the scope of science teaching laboratory practice course. The case study was utilized in the study. The study was conducted with 18, third grade pre-service science teachers. Pre-service teachers were given training on content represantation, creative and reflective thinking, and in this process, they prepared lesson plans every week, taking into account the objectives given them by the researchers, and used the methods and techniques taught that week within these lesson plans. During the process, the pre-service teachers kept reflective journals every week, and both these journals and the interviews conducted with the pre-service teachers in the third and last week of the application were used as data collection tools. Reflective journals and interviews were analyzed descriptively. Pre-service teachers stated that the practices carried out improved their professional skills. At the same time, they stated that their lack of knowledge about teaching methods and techniques was completed in this process, they had learned n about the laboratory and they got information about the science curriculum. To sum up it can be said that pre-service teachers had positive opinions about content representation prepairing process, gaining information about methods and techniques that develop creative thinking, and trainings for reflective thinking. Within the scope of the study, it is recommended to integrate such practices with the "Science Learning and Teaching Approaches" courses.
Yazar isimleri: ['Canan CENGİZ', 'Şenem ALKAN', 'Faik Özgür KARATAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 10 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Van Yüzüncü Yıl Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yyuefd/issue/73718/1092629
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2329584
