Makale Başlığı: Flee: Animatıon as Appearance of Remembering  in Documentary
Özet: Memory is the only organic system that records the experience of an individual at the micro level or the entire society at the macro level by synthesizing it in its own algorithm and providing information about the attitudes of the individual. In addition to recording property of memory, it also has the function of implicitly keeping traumatic events that have left a mark on the past of an individual or society. It is often possible to bring back data that has been left in the dark spots of memory by visual means rather than verbal means. In other words, it will be possible to reveal what is implicit in this recall by visual means. One of the important functions of cinema is to provide the reproduction of the past in a visual way. The fact that the film Flee, which is the subject of the study, was produced in a different animation genre than most films in the documentary category, provides an opportunity to see the world from a different reality. It is noteworthy that animation is blended with a genre that takes its power from the ‘real’ image, such as a documentary. Especially the images and animation format used in the protagonist’s remembering moments come into prominence. As far as it can be understood from these, the past that we remember is close to the imaginary rather than the reality. For this reason, the action of remember in the film often takes place through an image or a characteristic feature. This way of using also reveals the reason why the film uses animation. The aim of the study is to reveal that animated images may be more effective than real images in terms of the presentation of the act of remembering and the remembered past. In the study, the contribution of animation to reality was investigated using descriptive analysis technique, one of the qualitative research methods. Accordingly, it has been tried to reveal how the director uses the advantage of color and shape of the animation technique through the scenes that stand out in the cinematography of the film. As a result of the findings obtained, it was revealed that the technique used in the film was preferred to emphasize the authenticity of individual memory rather than a realistic social memory detection.
Yazar isimleri: ['Şenol ÇÖM']
Yayın Yılı: 18 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Maltepe Üniversitesi İletişim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iled/issue/71183/1131481
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2489625
