Makale Başlığı: Reading The Divan of Edirneli Nazmi in the Light of Tazkiras: Pearls Washed Ashore from an Artist’s Stylistic Evaluations
Özet: Poets have the ability to recite poetry with a divine power, and the vocabulary of the daily spoken language is insufficient for them. In this case, the artist tries to ascribe new meanings to existing words since they cannot derive new words to meet their emotional world. Their broad dreams and deep feelings lead them to this path. At this point of awareness, each artist forms their own style. According to Terry Eagleton, the surface of a piece of writing is nothing but the obedient reflection of its hidden depths. In the modern world, it is necessary to benefit from tradition as well as trying linguistic methods related to stylistic evaluations. Tazkiras, while presenting the biographies of many Ottoman poets, offer clues about how artists should use language. It is significant that a common terminology is used in these evaluations. In the light of this terminology, it is possible to hold an opinion on how to look at a work of art and how it should be written.  Divan of Edirneli Nazmi is a remarkable work in terms of both hosting many genres and the number of poems. The aim of our study is to show that stylistic knowledge can be studied in traditional terms by reading the Divan of Edirneli Nazmi, one of the sixteenth century poets, in the light of tazkiras. In the first chapter of our study, the stylistic evaluations of Edirneli Nazmi were determined based on the poetic terms in the tazkiras. The masnavi titled Arz-ı Hâl-i Be-Pȃdişȃh has also been examined within the scope of the subject. In chapter two, the poetics of the poet is revealed based on chapter one. In the last chapter, inferences were made by using the comparison method about how much the poet's poetics and her work overlap.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşegül EKİCİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Akademik Dil ve Edebiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/akaded/issue/73104/1167116
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2616559
