Makale Başlığı: A PRACTICE FOR THE IMPACT OF HEALTH EXPENDITURES ON ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF HEALTH ECONOMICS
Özet: Nowadays, the efficient use of resources has been a trending topic in any field as well as health care sector. The health economics combines medical services and health care financing. The rising demand for resources, medical financing methods and medical expenses are some of the most important reasons for the development of health economics. Health care service organizations are not only medical institutions but also financial and social institutions. Health system and economy are not independent of one another. Financial and social terms have significant implications on medicine. Boosting the quantity and the quality of medical services require more spending. It is important to determine how and from what source the financing should be found so that the expenses of the organizations offering medical services are met on regular basis. The practice section of the study involves panel data analysis to measure the impact of medical expenses, medication expenses, gross national expenses, the number of physicians in the US, the UK, Germany, Japan, and Turkey on financial growth rates. The study makes use of secondary data. When the non-periodic random panel data is analysed, the dependent variable for the Economic growth include Medical Expenses (X1), Medication Expenses (X2), Gross National Expenses (X3), The number of physicians per 1000 individuals (X4). Regardless of the annual implications, the variable for the Economic growth is influenced %59,05 by Medical Expenses (X1), Medication Expenses (X2), Gross National Expenses (X3), The number of physicians per 1000 individuals (X4) in the long run.
Yazar isimleri: ['Elçin GÜVEN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Sağlık Yönetimi ve Stratejileri Araştırma Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/usaysad/issue/72382/1112276
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2410132
