Makale Başlığı: NATION-STATE BUILDING IN  MONTENEGRO: AN INTERPRETATION  THROUGH ETHNOGROPHY, CULTURE AND SYMBOLS
Özet: The term “nation” can be explained as the entirety of the elements that manifest themselves within the national boundaries. There is no single way to imagine the nation. Among the factors that define national identity are ethnic origin, religion, language, a common past, culture, and a way of thinking, behaving, and living specific to the nation etc. No doubt these variables has been shaped by a set of historical, political, economic, and cultural factors. Accordingly, national symbols are important signs that help in understanding the nation and its heritage, that make it visible, and that make it more concrete in terms definition and expression. National symbols play a defining role in inheriting national heritage and preserving the sense of belonging, as well as allowing the nation to be differentiated from other communities. It is for this reason that symbols are utilized in the nationalization, nation building, and the establishment of the nation-state. National symbols can be divided into two as cultural and independence symbols. Cultural symbols are values that are based on society’s cultural accumulation and developing in time. In this respect, the cultural heritage of the societies forming nations play a decisive role. Meanwhile, independence symbols are “invented” by political elites during the process of nation-state building, and cultural heritage is one of the primary sources nourishing the aforementioned symbols. One of the most important issues encountered during the production of these symbols is the problem of “as-suming ownership (or appropriation) of national values” in the context of unity (or partnership) in lineage, language, religion, and culture. This sometimes leads to significant disputes concerning cultural heritage and historical memory. Especially in societies that continue their nation building process, it possible to find many examples clearly showing the emergence of the said problems. Indeed, there are many nations in the world today that possess similarities in lineage, origin, religion, and language and which are nourished from the same history and cultural heritage. In this regard, the Serbians and Montenegrins are a typical example in terms of the said problem. While many distinguished scholars refer to the Montenegrins as Serbs, it is possible to say that there is a considerable number of scholars who are of a dissenting opinion. Indeed, despite having many common values and possessing similarities, the Montenegrins have managed to develop a unique culture that distinguishes them from the Serbians.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ali ASKER', 'Neslihan KİBAR ÖNDER']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Milliyetçilik Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/madergisi/issue/73194/1176769
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2656793
