Makale Başlığı: AN INVESTIGATION OF THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN PIETY AND PSYCHOLOGICAL WELL-BEING IN UNIVERSITY STUDENTS
Özet: within university students". The relations between piety and psychological well-being are examined with both theoretical and empirical methods especially in the Western world. It is possible to come across compatible as well as incompatible information and findings in the literature questioning how the relationship between piety and psychological well-being is structured and the direction of this relationship. This is a matter of how the individual perceives religion and makes sense of it. The relationships between piety and psychological well-being are investigated not specifically by psychologists of religion but also by psychologists in general and sociologists. One of the basic criteria used to define psychological health is the extend in which an individual is happy with their life. In other words, people who are happy and peaceful in their life are considered to have good psychological health. The formation and content of the events experienced in life affect the inner peace, psychological well-being, and balance of the individual. In this regard, various forms of religious explanation can be a source for psychological well-being and happiness in many cases. It is because, religions potentially affect individuals' perceptions and perspectives on life while making their lives easier. The aim of this research is to determine the relationship between religiosity and psychological well-being. The sample of the study consists of 382 people studying at different departments at Mersin University. In this study, Personal Information Form, Religious Life Scale, and Psychological Well-Being Scale were used as measurement tools. At first, the relationship between some demographic variables as well as psychological well-being and religious life were examined, and then the
Yazar isimleri: ['İlyas PÜR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Kilis 7 Aralık Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/k7auifd/issue/70950/1090203
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2319472
