Makale Başlığı: ADMINISTRATIVE IMPLEMENTATIONS IN TEACHER TRAINING RELATED TO ACADEMIC, PROFESSIONAL AND PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT OF PROSPECTIVE TEACHERS
Özet: The aim of this study is to determine the managerial practices of administrators regarding the development of prospective teachers in the process of teacher training in education faculties. The most important task of education faculties is to equip the prospective teacher with the necessary skills to be ready for the teaching profession. The perspective of the faculty and department administrations on the professional, personal and academic development processes of the prospective teacher constitutes the quality of the education faculty. The research design is a qualitative case study. Case A and Case B status is limited to the date of education of education faculties. In the study, in which semi-structured interview form was used, a total of 6 deans and 17 department heads were interviewed in two situations. These interviews were analyzed in the form of creating codes, categories and themes with content analysis. The main determinants in the development of the prospective teacher. The quality of the academicians, the activities organized at the faculty and the university, the content of the teacher training program, the ability to use managerial initiative, the prospective teachers’ motivation to become a teacher, and the characteristics of the settlement where the faculty is located. As managerial difficulties, budget and resource shortages, limitation of authority, unwillingness of academicians to cooperate stand out as bureaucratic obstacles. In order for the prospective teacher to graduate with all aspects and to maintain these gains in his professional life, suggestions have emerged regarding the use of the facilities of the faculties in cooperation with the administration and academicians.
Yazar isimleri: ['Şefika Melike ÇAĞATAY', 'Recep Cengiz AKÇAY']
Yayın Yılı: 6 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Trakya Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/trakyasobed/issue/70085/930987
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1744506
