Makale Başlığı: EXAMINATION OF SPACE QUALIFICATIONS IN NATIONAL’S GARDEN CONCEPT: CASE STUDY OF KAHRAMANMARAŞ 15 TEMMUZ NATIONAL GARDEN
Özet: Public green spaces provide an environment where people can socialize in urban life, communicate with each other and share their lifestyles and information. The areas of use in these areas are designed and used in a way that can be thought of, as well as economic and social use and preliminary preparations. While planning public green spaces, besides human activities and needs, their formation is determined by public institutions. The qualities used in the shaping of green areas affect the effective use of the area and its contribution to the city where it is located. In this study, it is aimed to determine the effectiveness of the area characteristics of Kahramanmaraş 15 Temmuz National Garden in terms of users. Within the scope of the study, field qualifications were examined. In the method of the study, first of all, the place of the research area was determined by using the Google Earth. Then, the characteristics of the area were determined as a result of both on-site observations and interviews with institutions. At the other stage of the method, the quality parameters were determined by examining the literature studies on green area qualities. The status of the defined parameters in the field has been determined by the user survey. In the light of the data obtained, it has been determined to what extent the research area provides the quality parameters and suggestions have been developed accordingly. It has been determined that the lowest parameter value of the field is Accessibility. Users stated that the highest parameter is Activity-Equipment-Entertainment.
Yazar isimleri: ['Dilay ZÜLKADİROĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: ArtGRID - Journal of Architecture Engineering and Fine Arts
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/artgrid/issue/70748/1074452
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2256975
