Makale Başlığı: The Harmonization Studies of Journalists Who Exposed Industry 4.0  Process and Effects of This Process
Özet: Industry 4.0, which will set the world's new order, brings great technological innovations. From these innovations, employees of all sectors in the production of goods or services will be affected. It is clear that both the infrastructural as well as the contextually behindhand sectors will disappear in the future. And even for the identification and dissemination of the disappearing sectors, the journalism sector needs to survive. It is an inevitable necessity in the journalism sector for the continuity of journalism to make arrangementts for adaptation to the new era as it is in every sector. Industry 4.0 process demands from journalists not only; critical, creative, analytical thinking but also want different technical skills like coding, software development. The future generation of journalists should prepare for this period of time. However, in addition to working towards this generation, existing journalists must also go through a preparatory phase. In this study, it was aimed to discuss the preparations to adapt to the change and transformation that comes with industry 4.0. In the first part of the study, the concept of industry 4.0 was mentioned in general terms and the possible changes that could be brought were examined. In the same part, the journalism sector is explained in the historical process. In the second part, both the qualitative and technical differences were determined with the industry 4.0 of the current journalism sector. The deficiencies that need to be corrected were foreseen. In the last part, technical and qualitative studies have been suggested for correcting the foreseen deficiencies. The training content required to make each position in the sector compatible with industry 4.0 are determined. Literature search and editing methods were used as methodology in the study
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Haziran 2018
Dergi ismi: Akademia Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asj/issue/40224/479031
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/568049
