Makale Başlığı: City, Identity and Civilization in the Eyes of Teacher Candidates
Özet: This study aims to reveal the views of pre-service teachers studying at Yıldız Technical University Education Faculty about the city, identity and civilization and their perceptions of Istanbul urban identity. The study group of the research consists of teacher candidates who continue their education in different departments and levels at Yıldız Technical University Faculty of Education. An electronic interview form developed by the researchers and delivered to teacher candidates via Google Forms was used to collect the data. The data obtained were analyzed in accordance with phenomenology, one of the qualitative research methods, and interpreted by classifying with content analysis. The details of the pre-service teachers' perceptions of urban identity in Istanbul, after the settlements they lived in before Istanbul, and their contributions to Istanbul's teacher identity are discussed. Perceptions before and after living in Istanbul were compared and evaluated. According to the research findings, Istanbul; The participants gained qualifications such as being familiar with ethnic diversity, gaining self-confidence, exhibiting national values, being tolerant, being aware of the opportunities offered by the city, and empathizing when meeting people from different cultures. features. Participants expressed their metaphorical perceptions of Istanbul in five different themes (sea, history-culture-civilization, metropolitan life, emotion and others) with different images. It was determined that pre-service teachers gained a wider, comprehensive and unique identity by living in Istanbul and experiencing the city life. It is thought that these gains will provide cultural and qualified contributions to the students that prospective teachers will train in the future.
Yazar isimleri: ['Celile ÖKTEN', 'Mehmet Önder KARACAOĞLU', 'Neslihan KARAKUŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Sosyal Bilimler ve Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/josse/issue/73241/1115124
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2421520
