Makale Başlığı: Harmancık Waterfall, Çorum/Turkey
Özet: Harmancık Waterfall is one of the lesser-known natural tourist attractions of Çorum. The waterfall, which is located in the Central Black Sea Region of the Black Sea Region and within the borders of the Central district of Çorum province, is approximately 26 km away from the city center. This study has been prepared to examine the geographical features of Harmancık Waterfall and its surroundings and to determine the precautions to be taken for its use for tourism purposes. In the light of the findings and suggestions made at the end of the study, making the necessary arrangements in the destination planning to be made throughout the province and taking the waterfall into consideration will contribute to the development of tourism on a local and regional scale. While preparing the study, the relevant literature was examined and then field studies were carried out in different periods of 2020 and 2021. During the field studies, local administrators and local residents were interviewed, and the current situation was tried to be determined by SWOT analysis. A rural development and sustainable tourism model related to the site has been created, and in this context, the geographical components of the field have been examined and analyzed with a holistic approach. As a result of the investigations, it has been observed that the Kale Stream, which forms the waterfall, flows throughout the year and the increasing amount of water, especially in the spring months, increases the visuality of the waterfall. However, the opening of the waterfall, which has not been regulated yet, to tourism carries a great risk. For the sustainable use of the waterfall for tourism purposes, it has been suggested to make walking paths with landscaping, to increase the number of visitors with alternative activities and to protect the natural environment. It is expected that a serious visitor will come to the waterfall as a result of taking these suggestions into account and the arrangements to be made.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 25 Eylül 2021
Dergi ismi: Kesit Akademi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kesitakademi/issue/65705/1019321
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2064462
