Makale Başlığı: Makasıd-Oriented Interpreting of the Nass for Divorce- Case of the Hazil’s Divorce
Özet: There is no doubt that family plays a leading role in societies’ conserving their existence. Thus it is a social phenomenon that societies whose traces are visible in civilisation throughout the history developed precautions and policies to protect family. It can be considered as a kind of precaution that islam aims harmony and stability   between wife and husband by seeking balance between them. Marriage’s being a contract requiring heavy responsibility and divorce’s being an unlovely licit for Allah is as well a policy for the same aim. Furthermore, protecting family is one of the five fundamental aim. Known as makasıdu’}s sheria in Islamic jurisprudence, these five fundamentals which are formulated  as ‘ protecting life, property, religon, mind and generation’ include the general aims. On the other hand, the Shari in his provisions stemming from the nass also seeks some specific aims which make up the particular aims included in the nass. As a result, Shari’s aim can be made true by interpreting the nass in question within the framework of its specific aims without ignoring the nass’ s general aims. As family is a general aim, interpreting the specific nass concerning family law considering the general aims will comply with the aim of the Shari. However, in some works of muteahhirun term it can be said that nass concerning divorce is interpreted in a way ar from the general aim of protecting family and in a literal manner, which causes bad results. Thehthe the interpretation of the hadith about the status of the hazil [ who says “I divorce you “ as a joke] stands as a novel example. This rivayet says: there are three things whose serious is serious and joke is serious as well; namely marriage divorce and compensable divorce (rici) in these three matters, jokes are taken seriously. Actually this hadith ephasizes that these matters are too important to joke on. Understanding the hadith in this context seems more appropriate. In fact this hadith should have been tajen as a shield that blocks the ways leading to divorce, contrarily it has turned into a basic reference that leads to negative results for oral expressions of divorce. On the one hand the hadith “ every deed is based on one’s intention…” is accepted as a general principal that acts as a restricter  in many secondary oral and actual deeds, on the other hand, it is hard to understand that this hadith has not been taken into account in the hazil’s divorce So in our  notification the hadith’s text and chain of transfer from the Prophet  will be assessed and thereby its normative value will be discussed and especially its backround will be searched and lastly the possibility of makasıd-oriented new interpretations will be dwelt on.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nasi ASLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Çukurova Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi (ÇÜİFD)
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cuilah/issue/72875/1147153
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2551875
