Makale Başlığı: The Metamorphosis and Transformation of Sacrifice Ritual Shifted From Human to Animal: The Case of Manas Epic
Özet: Sacrifice, which is the most basic form of religious rites and as old as human history, appears as a ritual that continues its existence from primitive period to modern period and is at the center of belief systems. On the basis of the these rituals, practiced in the form of bloody and bloodless sacrifices is protection from the wrath of the gods and devil spirits, to thank them and gaining their help. It is known that many societies have offered sacrifices to supernatural forces since prehistoric times in order to fulfill these wishes. While animals such as cattle, horses, sheep and rams are sacrificed in the some rituals of these societies, both animal and human sacrifice is seen in some societies. Although the existence of human sacrifice has been proven in various societies, human sacrifice is controversial in Turks, but it is possible to see the existence of human sacrifice in the oral culture that carries traces of the deep past of history. One of these examples is in the Manas Epic, which is described as the cultural treasure of Kyrgyz Turks. The desire to sacrifice sinful people for Almambet as an ancient custom takes place in the epic as a ceramonial remnant of the human sacrifice and a reflection of the ritual of killing the god.However, this human sacrifice ritual has undergone many transformations according to the present conditions and changing sociocultural factors and human sacrifice has been replaced by animals.This article will focus on sacrificing and mostly human sacrifice rituals. Subsequently, the transformation of the offering phenomenon from human to animal will be tried to be explained in line with the information we have obtained from the Epic of Manas.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Naci ÖNAL', 'Cansu DAŞDEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Bitig Edebiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bitigefd/issue/70352/1104865
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2379769
