Makale Başlığı: An application to evaluate the imaginary place of hero figures in Turkish and Western kultures in secondary school students: The example of Dede Korkut Story
Özet: Based on the example of Dede Korkut Stories, the study aims to emphasize the importance of heroes in fairy tales, stories and mythologies of Turkish culture, as well as to evaluate the reflections of Western hero images in children. In addition, the effects of Western culture on Turkish children and the ways in which this culture affects children are among the objectives. In order to achieve these objectives, applications were made with students between the ages of 12 and 13 through an example selected from Dede Korkut Stories. In the study, the importance of stories and fairy tales for Turkish culture through Dede Korkut Stories and the place of the heroes in these sources are also emphasized. While examining the influence of western culture on students, it was also tried to reveal how some motifs in Dede Korkut Stories were found in children's minds. Phenomenology pattern from qualitative research approach and methods was used in the study. The output were gathered from semi-structured conversation form after applications such as story reading, animation and painting, and the analysis of this data was done with content analysis. In consequence of the study, it was concluded that the students had very few images of the heroes of Turkish culture, while they had many images of the mythological and contemporary heroic figures produced by Western culture. It was designated that the images used on media and various objects had a significant effect on the appearance of this result. Additionally, it was concluded that Salur Kazan, which was selected from Dede Korkut Stories in the application, had positive effects on the students as a hero.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hasan IŞIK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Balıkesir Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/baunsobed/issue/70843/1038396
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2139274
