Makale Başlığı: Examing of Teacher Professional Learning
Özet: The purpose of this research is to examine the perceptions of teachers about their professional learning. In the research, a correlational study designed in a descriptive model was carried out. The population of the research consists of 2834 teachers working in primary, secondary and high schools affiliated to the Ministry of National Education in the province of Karabük in the 2020-2021 academic year. Developed by Liu, Hallinger, and Feng (2016) to determine teachers' perceptions of their professional learning; The Teacher Vocational Learning Scale (SMS), which was adapted into Turkish by Gümüş, Apaydın, and Bellibas (2018), was used. The obtained data were completed by transferring SPSS 21.0. Frequencies, percentage, mean and standard deviation values were calculated in the analysis of the data, and T-test and one-way Anova test were used in the analysis of differences. In the research, it was examined whether there was a significant difference according to the variables of gender, age, education level, school level, working time at school, working time in teaching, and the region where the school is located. In the findings obtained as a result of the research, it was seen that the teachers' perceptions of their professional learning were at the level of I completely agree in the dimension of cooperation and practice, and at the level of agree in the dimension of reflection and reaching the knowledge base, according to the sub-dimensions of the scale. In the research, there was no statistically significant difference between the sub-dimensions of professional learning in terms of gender, age, educational status, school level, working time at school, working time in teaching; According to the variable of the region where the school is located, a higher level and statistically significant difference was found in the cooperation and reflection dimensions of the teachers working in the schools in the city center and district center compared to the teachers working in the village school. There was no significant difference in terms of application and access to the knowledge base.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hünkar UÇAR']
Yayın Yılı: 10 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Akademik Platform Eğitim ve Değişim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/apjec/issue/70228/955593
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1835963
