Makale Başlığı: The Historical Use of the Phrase Ḥabl al-Warīd as a Term in the Qurʾān
Özet: The 16th verse of Sūra al-Qāf is translated as "Indeed, it is We Who created humankind and fully know what their souls whisper to them, and We are closer to them than their jugular vein" in many translations of the Qurʾān, including the one published by Presidency of Religious Affairs.  The phrase “ḥabl al-warīd” in this verse is translated into Turkish as “şah damarı” (carotid vein in English). In addition, the Arabic phrase "ḥabl al-warīd" itself is used in some translations and tafsīrs, while in others, it is translated as "boyun damarı” (the neck vein) or “can damarı” (life vein). The phrase “jugular vein”, the Latin equivalent of “ḥabl al-warīd”, is retained in translations into many languages, including English. On both sides of the human neck are arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to the head and veins that transfer venous blood from the head to heart. These arteries that carry oxygenated blood are called “şah damarı” in Turkish.  The medical term for “şah damarı” is carotid artery in English. The venous blood vessels that carry the deoxygenated blood to the heart are medically known as “jugular veins”, and it means “boyun damarı” in Turkish (neck vein). “Ḥabl al-warīd” is translated as “şah damarı” into Turkish (carotid vein in English), and the medical equivalent of this Turkish term is “carotis artery” in English. Therefore, based on the aforementioned Turkish translations, the medical equivalent of the term “ḥabl al-warīd” should be “carotis artery”. However, the phrase “ḥabl al-warīd” is translated as “jugular vein” meaning neck vein in many translations in different languages, including the English translation published by the Presidency of Religious Affairs in Turkey. In other words, while the term’s Turkish translation “şah damarı” means “carotid artery”, “carotis artery”, “ḥabl al-warīd” is medically equivalent to the term “jugular vein” in many other languages in a conflicting way.The following sequence of activities were carried out in the present study, which is based on the qualitative analysis of the findings obtained from the literature review conducted to investigate this problem. Along with the historical perspective, this study elaborates on the accurate and inaccurate usages of the terms “şah damarı” (carotid vein) and "neck vein" (boyun toplardamarı) in Turkish. Then, it presents the equivalents of the term “ḥabl al-warīd” mentioned in the verse in some languages and discusses the use of the word “ḥabl” with reference to the terms about vein in the Qurʾān and Arabic. It examines the anatomy of the neck veins in Ottoman Turkish and modern Turkish in terms of the term’s historical development and provides historical examples. It also examines the changes in the use of the word " ḥabl al-warīd" in Turkish translations from a medical perspective. Based on the analysis of its equivalents in Arabic, Ottoman Turkish and modern Turkish with reference to the knowledge of anatomy, the term was interpreted with respect to anatomy, physiology and semantics, along with its interpretations from the past. Following the tradition of Ibn al-ʿArabī, the word "closeness" in the verse was considered as "closer proximity" in line with the concept of barzakh. In the human body, the two separate circulations of the cardiovascular system for the venous and oxygenated blood come very close to each other at certain points, with just a thin line between them. Just as a line dividing a circle into two semicircles is "closer" when the semicircles are next to each other, the anatomical and physiological proximity at these body points is thought to imply the proximity of matter and spirituality. In addition to Ibn al-ʿArabī’s approach, a different interpretation was offered base on Ibn Abbas, who said that " ḥabl and warīd are the same thing” in " ḥabl al-warīd”. Accordingly, it was concluded that the words “ḥabl” and “warīd” refer to two different properties of the anatomical structure of the “umbilical cord” as understood from a comparative analysis of some medical information in Arabic, Latin, English and Turkish. It was inferred that God is closer to man than the umbilical cord, which functions as the link to life. In conclusion, the term " ḥabl al-warīd " should be reconsidered in line with the current medical knowledge, along with the historical use of this phrase. This study concludes that the translation errors made in the translations of Qurʾān into Turkish could be corrected by considering the current medical knowledge. It also emphasizes that the interpretation of the Qurʾān would be more accurate if the differences between the Turkish translations of the Qurʾān and its translations into other languages were minimized. It also highlights that new interpretations are a mercy of Allah. The phrase “ḥabl al-warīd” was explained in a novel way, based on “şah damarı” in Turkish, along with the neck vein, heart and umbilical cord.
Yazar isimleri: ['Rıfat ATAY', 'Mustafa CİĞER']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Harran İlahiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/hij/issue/73713/1107136
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2389199
