Makale Başlığı: Investigation of Neurogenesis in Kindled Wistar and Genetic Absence Epilepsy Rats
Özet: Objective: The most common type of epilepsy affecting about 50 million people worldwide is temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Chemical and electrical kindling methods in animals can be used to form TLE model. In the present study, it was aimed to investigate neurogenesis in the hippocampus of adult kindled Wistar rats and genetic absence epilepsy rats from Strasbourg (GAERS) rats by immunofluorescence methods.Methods: Adult Wistar and GAERS albino rats weighing 250-300 gr were injected pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) (35 mg/kg, s.c.) every other day to produce chemical kindling. Animals having 5 times grade 5 seizures were considered to be kindled. Intracardiac perfusion was performed under deep anesthesia on the 7th and 14th days after the last grade 5 seizure. Immunofluorescence methods were used to demonstrate newly formed neurons, astroglial cells, and mature neurons, by using anti-doublecortin (DCX), anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and anti- neuronal nuclear antigen (NeuN) primary antibodies, respectively. Sections were then examined under a fluorescence microscope.Results: DCX (+) cells were found to be increased in GAERS control groups compared to the Wistar control groups; and in Wistar PTZ groups compared to the Wistar control groups. DCX (+) cells were decreased in GAERS PTZ groups compared to their controls and to Wistar PTZ groups.Conclusion: The findings of the present study suggest that the resistance to electrical kindling of GAERS reported in previous studies might be related to the increased neurogenesis in this strain.
Yazar isimleri: ['Melis YAVUZ', 'Özlem Tuğçe ÇİLİNGİR-KAYA', 'Serap ŞİRVANCI']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Clinical and Experimental Health Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/clinexphealthsci/issue/72731/1021171
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2071776
