Makale Başlığı: The Semantic Study of Animal Names in Rawas’ Poetry
Özet: After the period of the Companions and the Tabi'un, many tribes and nations converted to Islam, the circle of science was expanded and divided among the specialists. Each group has produced works in the field of art and science, in which it is superior to the other, so that , the science of jurisprudence, the science of monotheism, the sciences of hadith, the ‎principles of religion, interpretation, logic, the term hadith, the science of assets, inheritance ‎obligations and others have emerged. However, after this period, the spiritual influence began to weaken gradually. ‎People began to forget the necessity of turning to God with the consciousness of servitude. This situation encouraged Sufi scholars to prove the greatness and virtue of the science of Sufism and its superiority over other sciences, to make up for the inadequacies and to strive for the compilation of this science in order to perfect the religious needs in all areas of life. Sufism aims to transform the principles of goodness and education into truth, the principle of purifying them from vices and adorning them with virtues, which is the third pillar of the ‎complete Islamic religion after the two pillars of Islam and faith‏.‏ The Sufi has a special language in which his conditions and positions grow, through which he ‎was able to expand the boundaries of his poetic circle and access the deep structure of the text.‎ Because they know that clear words cannot reach the goals they want to achieve. Er-Revvas is one of the Sufis who make use of expressions such as signs, allusions and symbols while expressing the meanings they carry in their hearts. He used symbols in animal names while expressing her conscientiousness. Each name expresses the longing, sadness, pain of separation, courage, etc. that he wants to express. According to Er-Revvas, the people of mysticism have a language that develops their unique status and rank, and by entering the poetry circle with it, they reach the deep structure of the text with the signs, judgments, meanings and symbols desired by the poet. These symbols reveal many interpretations of the poet's spiritual and emotional experience. This is a language that is unique and has terms that only people who have experienced and know Sufism can understand. The meaning of this language, which can be drawn clearly, in accordance with the possibilities and limitations of existence, where the reader cannot clearly reach its mystery and depth and make sense of it, puts the reader into a kind of complexity. Dictionaries are also insufficient in the presence of this spiritual condition of the Sufi. ‎
Yazar isimleri: ['M. Salem ASSAD']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Yedi Aralık Sosyal Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yasader/issue/70489/1126813
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2469961
