Makale Başlığı: Re-watching Lovelorn Directed by Yavuz Turgul in Consideration of Great Gatsby by Scott F. Fitzgerald
Özet: In this article, both F. S. Fitzgerald's novel The Great Gatsby, having an important place in American literature, and Yavuz Turgul's Gönül Yarası (aka. Lovelorn) one of the cornerstones of Turkish cinema, will be studied. The Great Gatsby is an important novel of American literature written by Fitzgerald in the mid-1920s. In the novel which has a depiction of collapse of American dream, the narrator Nick Carraway tells the life of Jay Gatsby. The novel has an important place in terms of showing the cultural understanding of the period and the reasons behind the behaviors of the characters. On the other hand, about eighty years after the novel, the movie Lovelorn, which has an important place in Turkish cinema, was shot. Eight years after the movie Eşkiya, one of the milestones of Turkish cinema, Turgul scripted and directed the movie Lovelorn, which features important artists such as Şener Şen and Meltem Cumbul. The movie Eşkiya brought a breath of fresh air to Turkish cinema, and Lovelorn has been a successful film both at home and abroad. The film tells the story of Dünya (Meltem Cumbul), who was subjected to violence by her husband, trying to hold on in Istanbul with her little daughter. Events develop when film Dünya meets Nazım (Şener Şen), a retired teacher and taxi driver, and his later divorced wife Halil (Timuçin Esen) finds her. While he used typical honor killings as a plot in the films he directed, in this film, Turgul has managed to bring the audience together with the underlying causes of the behavior of both male and female characters by centered on cultural elements and identity. In this article, based on culture and identity, Yavuz Turgul's film Lovelorn and F. Scott Fitzgerald's novel The Great Gatsby will be examined.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Van İnsani ve Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/visbid/issue/69006/1091748
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2325820
