Makale Başlığı: Examination of the Academic Structure of the Social Studies Teaching Undergraduate Program
Özet: The research aims to reveal the academic structure of Social Studies Education Programs in Turkey in terms of different variables. For this purpose, the genders, titles, doctoral graduation years of the faculty members working in the program, the universities where they worked and did doctorate, the fields where they did their doctorate, and the inbreeding rates of the programs were examined. The research was designed according to the case study, which is one of the qualitative research patterns. The data were collected through document review. The data source of the research consists of 377 faculty members working in 64 universities that accept students to the Social Studies Education Undergraduate Program. YÖK Undergraduate Program Atlas and YÖK Academic databases were used to obtain the data. As a result of the analysis of the data, it was understood that the faculty members working in the program were predominantly male in terms of gender and that the assistant professor faculty members were more than professors and associate professors in terms of title. On the other hand, it was determined that the number of faculty members who graduated with doctorate degrees between 2006 and 2013 is higher than in other year intervals. It was observed that faculty members completed their doctorate in the fields such as social studies education, history education, geography education, and history and geography that constitute social studies. It was determined that some well-established universities such as Gazi, Atatürk, and Marmara in doctoral programs stand out as source universities, and these source universities had high inbreeding rates. It is thought that the study will be beneficial in terms of providing guidance and employment to undergraduate and graduate students as well as academicians in the relevant field.
Yazar isimleri: ['Orhan ÜNAL', 'Nurbanu ŞEREN']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Üniversite Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/uad/issue/73577/1103677
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2375108
