Makale Başlığı: Examination of B flat Clarinet equipment used in classical music and differences in usage areas
Özet: The clarinet has undergone many changes throughout history until it reached its present form, and has also been produced in different forms and materials. Since the B flat clarinets used in classical music were first made, there were no different equipment options and technological developments, so the performers were able to present their performances at a certain level. But over time, thanks to the new fret mechanisms in the clarinet developed by the Germans and the French, the performers gained more skill on their instruments. As a result of these developments, not only the B flat clarinet, but also the equipment used on the clarinet underwent improvements and changes. For instrument performers, performing successfully is a process that proceeds in parallel with the use of the right instrument and the right equipment. Incorrect selection of equipment can lead to numerous problems. The selection of appropriate instruments and equipment for the performer is of great importance in this context. B flat clarinet players, which is a wind instrument, also search for the best way to express themselves musically. They try to find the most beautiful timbre by trying different equipment for years so that the tone and tone coming out of the instrument is pleasing to them first and then to the listeners. The equipment of clarinets has developed and changed over the years with the advancement of technology. As a result of these developments, musical companies, which are instrument manufacturers, have gone to develop different products for each equipment in order to enable the performers to reach the timbres they want. In this article, it is aimed to present a detailed examination in order to eliminate the lack of information about the usage areas and differences of these equipments. The information about the equipment that is the subject of the article was obtained by scanning the literature and discussed in detail. Mouthpieces, ligatures, reeds and barrels will be discussed as equipment used in B flat clarinet, and detailed information will be presented about the differences in usage areas by grouping them according to model, brand and features. In addition, during the research, different models of equipment produced by various world-renowned clarinet brands were examined and comparisons were made. In this research, an answer is sought to the question of whether the B flat clarinet players’ knowledge of the equipment creates a positive improvement in their performance. Available information and research findings have confirmed the conclusion that choosing the right equipment will have a positive impact on the performer’s performance. Equipment changes that seem like minor changes can make a huge difference in the tone and comfort of the instrument. It has been concluded that it will be advantageous for educators and performers to have sufficient knowledge of the technical details of the equipment and production materials in solving the problems they experience. It has been concluded that thanks to the information about all the equipment, brand models and technical features in the article, it can bring a different perspective by providing benefits to the trainers who give B flat clarinet training, and also contribute by being a motivation factor. It is thought that this research is a useful resource that will positively change the performances of clarinet players.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kaya KILIÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Rast Müzikoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rastmd/issue/72289/1161053
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2592552
