Makale Başlığı: Effect of Digitalization on Human Resources Management in the Public Sector; A Qualitative Research in Mardin
Özet: The phenomenon of digitalization has taken its place among the remarkable elements of competition by inevitably affecting all areas in every field of daily life. Adaptation of institutions and organizations to changing competitive conditions is possible by developing the skills, knowledge and competencies of Human Resources Management (HRM) employees. The aim of this study is to determine the experiences and opinions of the provincial directors working in the provincial organizations of the ministries in order to reveal the effect of digitalization in human resources management (HRM) in the public sector. Qualitative research method was adopted in the research to provide detailed data on the effects of digitalization. In the study, semi-structured interviews were conducted with 13 provincial directors working in Mardin and the collected data were analyzed. In the context of corporate work experience, the opinions of the participants, who have theoretical and practical competencies in the field, were taken on the axis of three main themes related to digitalization (positive effects of digitalization on public administration and HRM, the obligations of digitalization on public administration and HRM, the effect of the COVID-19 epidemic on the digitalization process). . The main findings obtained as a result of the study are that digitalization accelerates the processes in public services and HRM processes, saves cost and time, facilitates access to information, and the COVID-19 epidemic accelerates the digitalization process and makes it permanent. On the other hand, the participants emphasized that the infrastructure deficiencies should be completed and data security should be taken into account in order to adapt to digitalization and control the process. This study aims to contribute to the literature as one of the original academic studies on the digitalization of HRM in the public sector.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet ALANLİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: PESA Uluslararası Sosyal Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/pesausad/issue/73629/1130587
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2485783
