Makale Başlığı: COVID-19-Related Stress and Anxiety Levels of Individuals with Chronic Diseases: The Case of Karaman Province
Özet: Objective: This study was conducted to determine the stress and anxiety levels of individuals with chronic diseases during the COVID-19 pandemic.Methods: The population of this descriptive and relational study consisted of individuals with chronic diseases living in Karaman. In the study, 211 participants were reached by snowball sampling method. Data were collected through a data collection form consisting of 54 questions.Results: The mean age of the participants was 45.77±14.64 years. With COVID-19; more than half of the participants reported that hand washing (69.2%) and weight gain (64.9%) increased, their job opportunities (80.1%) and their presence in social environments (69.7%) decreased. It was determined that the participants' PSS and HAS mean scores were moderate. It was observed that some participants had higher levels of stress (women, hypertensive, having the disease, increasing the number of hand washing, decreasing family-friend meetings, sleep and nutrition, etc.) and self-efficacy (non-working, living with a disease, increasing family-friend meetings and sleep time, etc.) than others (p<0.05).  In addition, it was determined that some factors such as non-working, follow the information of the Ministry of Health about the disease etc. increased the perception of health (p<0.05).Conclusion: It has been revealed that the stress perception and anxiety levels of individuals with chronic disease are moderate and affected by many factors. For this reason, it is recommended to support individuals with chronic diseases (women, hypertensive patients, those who have had COVID-19 disease) with stress management issues, especially those with higher levels of stress and anxiety.
Yazar isimleri: ['Demet ÇELİK', 'Ayşe TÜRKMEN']
Yayın Yılı: 5 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Ordu Üniversitesi Hemşirelik Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ouhcd/issue/73709/952646
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1825014
