Makale Başlığı: Aydinoglu Havsa Hatun and Her Mausoleum
Özet: Aydinogullari is one of the substantial Turkish Beylik that have established dominance in Western Anatolia, which is the Aydin and Izmir regions, in the XIV. century. It is founded by Aydinoglu Mehmed Bey. Under Turkish state tradition and culture, this beylic worked for the development and thriving of the lands it dominated. Unlike the contemporaneous Turkish Beyliks in Anatolia, the zoning activities of the beylic were highly affected by women in the dynasty.Havsa Hatun, one of the women of the Aydinoglu dynasty, is the daughter of Yakup Bey, the son of Suleyman Shah, the fourth son of Aydinoglu Mehmed Bey. Havsa Hatun's waqfs and works draw attention in archives and sources. Aydinogullari first settled in a region where they established a settlement which is called “Yenisehir.” Havsa Hatun was an administrator in that region and established important waqfs. Havsa Hatun is an exemplary person who works for the development of her ancestral lands. The burial of Havsa Hatun is within the borders of the Kuyucak district today. It is approximately 10 km north of Aydin Bey Tomb within the limits of the Karacasu district and almost 1 km east of the ruins of the ancient city of Antiochia. There are the graves of Havsa Hatun and Atabey Mustafa Bey in the square-planned, single-domed tomb. It is written on Mustafa Bey's tombstone in 1411 and on Havsa Hatun's tombstone in 1425 that she died.  It is understood that the tomb was built after the death of Mustafa Bey. Atabey Mustafa is also one of the Aydınoğlu dynasty. His father's name is Ahmed Efendi. Atabey Mustafa also has foundations. He was noted for his philanthropic personality.  In this study, various sources, especially the material remains of Havsa Hatun Mausoleum and tombstones, archive records and waqf charters, were examined. And Havsa (Havsa) Hatun Hatun's life, one of the substantial characters of Aydinogullari and Anatolian Turkish history, was tried to be enlightened and aimed to contribute to the studies of the beyliks period history of art.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bülent Nuri KILAVUZ', 'Mutlu ADAK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İnsan ve Toplum Bilimleri Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/itobiad/issue/72362/1148340
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2555644
