Makale Başlığı: Kronik Santral Seröz Koryoretinopati Hastalarında Geniş Açılı Dijital Fundus Kamera ile Otofloresan Değişikliklerinin Değerlendirilmesi
Özet: Purpose: To evaluate the autofluorescence variations and localisation in wide-angle digital fundus camera images of patients with chronic central serous chorioretinopathy (CSCR).Methods: A retrospective scan was made of the images of patients diagnosed with chronic CSCR with wide-angle digital fundus angiography and applied at the same time with autofluorescence imaging. The ultra wide area autofluorescence images of 46 patients were examined. The retina was separated as zone 1, zone 2, and zone 3 in respect of disease involvement, and zone 3 represented the peripheral retina. The images of the patients were recorded as hyperautofluorescence (punctate, diffuse) or hypo-autofluorescence (granular, confluent) in respect of the type of autofluorescence involvement. Results: After the exclusion of 2 patients because peripheral images could not be clearly selected, the study evaluations were made of 44 eyes of 44 patients. In the result of the examination with wide-angle digital fundus autofluorescence imaging, there was seen to be zone 2 involvement in the 4 quadrants of inferior, nasal, temporal and superior. Peripheral retinal involvement in zone 3 was seen in a total of 7 (15.9%) patients in the form of inferior gravitational defect, in 6 (13.6%) patients together with zones 1 and 2, and in 1 (2.3%) patient together with zone 2. Hyperautofluorescence was determined in 39 (88.6%) patients and hypo-autofluorescence in 5 (11.4%). The involvement frequency was determined as zone 1+2 in 19 (43.2%) patients, followed by zone 1 involvement alone in 16 (36.4%) patients. Conclusions: While zone 3 peripheral retina involvement was seen only in the form of inferior gravitational defect, zone 2 involvement was determined in 4 quadrants. As the type of autofluorescence, hyperautofluorescence was determined at the high rate of approximately 90%. These results show that CSCR patients identified as zone 2 should be evaluated in respect of autofluorescence in all the quadrants, while disease involvement is only in the inferior of the peripheral retina because of gravity, and hyperautofluorescence is seen very often in CSCR.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa Değer BİLGEÇ', 'Erdoğan YAŞAR', 'Nazmiye EROL']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Osmangazi Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/otd/issue/73231/1092900
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2330621
