Makale Başlığı: Level Intercultural Tolerance of Nurses and Nursing Students and Related Factors: A Cross-Sectional Study
Özet: Nurses have difficulty in transitioning from a mainly single-cultural world to societies believed to be marginalized. Nurses should be able to tolerate multiculturalism and accept intercultural differences. Tolerating the cultural diversity is among the basic principles of nursing care. The study aimed to describe the level of intercultural tolerance of nurses and determine the main influencing factors. A descriptive, analytical cross-sectional study was conducted on 867 nurses and nursing students. After descriptive statistical analysis, parametric tests were applied to determine between-variable associations, followed by multiple linear regression analysis. In our study, the mean of the intercultural tolerance scale (ITS) score of the participants was 46.88 ± 10.51 (min-max=18-81) points. As a result, seven independent variables were determined to be effective on intercultural tolerance in nurses and nursing students. In the multiple regression model, the predictors of ITS were age, gender, presence of relatives/friends of different faiths in communication, curiosity about different cultures, religions, lifestyles, desire to live in a place with a different culture, enjoying caring for people from different cultures, taking any training to develop cultural competence that these were factors influencing ITS in the evaluated nursing students and nurses. The intercultural tolerance level is moderate and is associated with many factors. These variables explain only 28% of the factors affecting intercultural tolerance.It is recommended to repeat the study to determine other factors affecting intercultural tolerance.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gözde ÖZSEZER', 'Gulbu TANRIVERDI']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Sosyal Bilimler ve Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/usbed/issue/70167/1134342
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2501353
