Makale Başlığı: The effect of air temperature on BİST ALL Index Prices: The example of İstanbul
Özet: The concept of 'Homo Economicus', which was brought to the literature by Adam Smith, means rational or economic individual and states that investors are people who maximize their own interests. The concept, which was introduced in 1776, has continued to be defended in traditional finance theories since the 1950s and it has been stated that investors act rationally in their investment decisions. Behavioral finance, which was advocated after the 1970s and argued that investors are not rational due to some anomalies and heuristics in their investment decisions, has become an important issue in the last half century. Behavioral finance argues that investors cannot act rationally in their investment decisions due to some psychological, biological, sociological, demographic or external factors. It is stated that as a result of not acting rationally, mistakes are made in the investment decisions of the investors. According to behavioral finance theory, not every individual is considered rational, and it is argued that investor psychology has a significant impact on investments. In this study, it is aimed to determine whether weather data affects BIST ALL Shares Index prices. Within the scope of the study, between 05.01.2016-29.07.2022, BIST ALL Shares Index prices for winter, spring, summer and autumn; cloudy times and maximum, average and minimum temperature data were obtained. The obtained data was organized within the scope of the days when Borsa Istanbul was traded, and a sample was created. ANOVA test and Regression Analysis were used as a method in the study. As a result of the study, it has been determined that the cloudiness periods in the spring, the maximum, average, minimum temperatures and the maximum, average and minimum temperatures of the summer season affect the BIST ALL Shares Index prices. When the findings are evaluated in general, it is concluded that the air temperature data affects the BIST ALL Shares Index prices and thus the investor decisions.
Yazar isimleri: ['Batuhan MEDETOĞLU', 'Yusuf Bahadır KAVAS']
Yayın Yılı: 9 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Business Economics and Management Research Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bemarej/issue/73285/1177367
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2659386
