Makale Başlığı: The Effects of Angled Walls on Room Frequency Response in Music Rehearsal Rooms: Izmir State Conservatory and Isilay Saygin High School as a Case Study
Özet: It is observed that the music rehearsal rooms in conservatories and other music education institutions are designed without protection against acoustic distortions. The NS-8178 and later ISO 23591:2021 standard, in which the basic principles of rehearsal room acoustics are set, refer to a number of architectural form features to prevent distortions in the frequency response of the room: Controlling of coloration in low frequencies by choosing room proportions that give a soft low frequency response, and preventing flutter echo (FE) problems at mid frequencies with angulation at least 7° on the lateral walls. Angling also has an effect on low frequency sound levels as it does on mid frequencies. The general view in the literature is that angulation does not reduce the coloration effects, but has an effect on the pressure distribution in the roomIn this study, standard deviation values were followed on frequency responses in rectangular and trapezoidal room models with the same proportions, in order to determine which one is more suitable for the acoustics of rehearsal rooms. The parameters were determined using samples taken from the measurements of İzmir State Conservatory (IzDK) and Isilay Saygin Fine Arts High School (ISGSL). In order to research the relationship between volume and angulation, three different volume groups were selected and modeled, and room impulse responses (RIR) were generated in Odeon 13. The data showed that angulations in rooms with the same ratios yield the same modal, fundamental frequency occurrences at values below the Schroeder frequency. Standard deviation calculations on the Schroeder frequency were performed using linear averaging Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) in MATLAB 2021a environment. Deviations between certain limits were calculated from the obtained data, and the smoothing effects caused by angulation were examined. The statistical method used showed that a 25% smoothing effect could be possible in the region up to 500 Hz.
Yazar isimleri: ['Serhat DURMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Yedi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yedi/issue/71473/1058256
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2193749
