Makale Başlığı: Epidemiological Investigation of Burn Injuries in Geriatric Patients:  A 10-Year Analysis
Özet: Background: The epidemiology of burns varies depending on the socio-economic factors and cultural characteristics of each region. There is a need for data on the etiology of burn traumas in each region in terms of precautions to be taken to prevent or reduce these traumas. Our aim in this study is to analyze the demographic and epidemiological aspects of elderly Turkish and Syrian patients who were treated in our Burn Center between 2012 and 2021.Materials and Methods: After local ethics committee approval, the records of a total of 21,531 patients who were hospitalized in our hospital's burn center between January 2012 and December 2021, over a 10-year period, were reviewed. In total, demographic and epidemiological data of 155 patients (136 Turkish, 19 Syrian) were recorded. Outpatients, referred to another center, or patients with chronic burns were excluded from the study. Age, gender, burn causes, burn localizations, burn severity (grouped as mild, moderate, severe and critical according to total body surface area (TBSA) percentage), time of admission, place of residence of the patients, duration of follow-up in the hospital and results were recorded. Etiology of burns were classified as scalding, flame, electrical, chemical burns. TBSA was calculated according to the rule of nines. Burn localizations were classified as head and neck, trunk (anterior and posterior), upper extremity and lower extremity, buttocks and genital area. The admission dates of the patients were classified as autumn, winter, spring and summer. The region where the patients lived was evaluated in two groups as urban and rural.Results: A total of 155 patients, 97 (62.7%) female and 58 (37.3%) male, were included in the study. The most common cause was scalding injuries. When we classified the burn degrees of the patients according to the total body area surface, we found that the highest rate of burns was moderate (10-30% TBSA). The most frequently burned anatomical parts of the body were thearms (51.6%) and legs (50.3%) in the extremities. It was seen that 136 of the patients were Turkish and 19 were Syrian. In the analysis of the causes of burns, it was found that chemical and electrical burns were never seen in Syrians, while flame and scalding burns were statistically significantly higher in Turks. When the burned body areas were examined, it was determined that the most common burns were on the extremities in both races. It was observed that 15 (9.7%) patients died in the follow-ups. Among the deaths, it was determined that the most common death occurred under the age of 65 with 80% (p=0.027).Conclusions: In this study, we examine burn injuries in the elderly population, we can say that the need for medical care is higher and more important in this special patient group compared to younger patients, when factors such as the regional population, the number of Syrian refugees, and living conditions are taken into account. Due to the systemic effects of aging and comorbid diseases in geriatric burn patients, we can achieve reduced mortality and morbidity with a multidisciplinary approach at every step.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hüseyin Avni DEMİR', 'Çağatay ÇAVUŞOĞLU', 'Nadire DİNÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Harran Üniversitesi Tıp Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/hutfd/issue/71631/1131754
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2490640
