Makale Başlığı: THE EFFECT OF THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC PERIOD ON THE PERSONAL CARE DYNAMİCS
Özet: Outbreaks have always devastating effects on the human history. These effects varied depending on period and its conditions. There are recent macro and micro reflections of the recent Covid-19 pandemic. As a result of these reflections of the pandemic, the recent period of the epidemic has inevitably differentiated the routines of people,  necessitating people to adapt new life dynamics. During this period, some changes have also occurred in the personal care dynamics of people. From this point of view, the effects of the pandemic on the personal care dynamics of women were investigated. In this study, in-depth interviews were conducted with 40 women who came to a beauty center in Bursa to receive service. As a result of the interviews conducted, it was revealed that the pandemic affected the working life, psychological status, and gender inequality of women, thereby affecting personal care dynamics negatively. The study has focused on the perception of personal care and it was seen that the most emphasized situation was determined as the personal care (35%). Moreover, 90% of women stated that their routines have changed due to the pandemic. 88% of the women interviewed emphasized that they felt bad because they waived from their personal care and were psychologically affected by this situation negatively. Another conclusion is that the household workload of women increased considerably during the pandemic and they devoted most of their time to cleaning and childcare. As a result of this situation, it was determined that women have waived from their personal self-care dynamics during the pandemic period.
Yazar isimleri: ['İpek Beyza ALTIPARMAK', 'Aynur AS']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Paradoks Ekonomi Sosyoloji ve Politika Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/paradoks/issue/70629/1083067
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2290932
