Makale Başlığı: EVALUATION OF THE ROLE OF INSTITUTIONAL REPUTATION IN THE EFFECT OF ETHICAL CLIMATE ON SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES IN TERMS OF MANAGER AND INSTITUTIONAL CHARACTERISTICS
Özet: Ethical Climate is the institutional environment perceived by the stakeholders formed by the attitudes, behaviors, rules, and ethical codes in a business. This environment affects the approach of "sustainability", which means that institutions should think about their stakeholders, as well as future generations, and "corporate reputation", which is the impression of the activities of the institution on people. The ethical climate, corporate reputation, and sustainability practices of the institution are among the original basic resources that make institutions different from their equivalents. It is primarily managers and institutions that reveal this difference. The point of view of the institutions and the approach of the managers are crucial for corporation success. This research was carried out due to a search for an answer to the question of whether the importance and approaches of the subjects interact with the characteristics of managers and institutions, and there have not found any similar studies in the literature.This study aims to analyze the interaction between these three approaches, which are of great importance for institutions, in terms of manager and institution characteristics. The research was conducted with 448 managers in institutions whose success was registered by independent research firms in Turkey, using the survey method. Interactions between approaches were tested with data on manager and institution characteristics, using the Multi-Group Analysis method in the Structural Equation Model. As a result of the research, which was structured according to the opinions of the managers, it was detected that the characteristics of the manager and the institution had a significant and positive effect on the interaction of the three variables with each other. It has also been determined that the results do not differ according to the mentioned characteristics. This shows that these issues should be given importance and applied by all institutions, regardless of the characteristics of the manager and the institution.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gülcan AYRAL', 'Nüket SARACEL']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Anadolu Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ulasbid/issue/70080/1117723
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2432411
