Makale Başlığı: PRICE ACTIVITIES AND TOURISM POTENTIAL IN KORHAN HIGHLAND (IGDIR)
Özet: Iğdır, located in Erzurum-Kars Section of the Eastern Anatolia Region, is lower than its surroundings. Due to this feature, the microclimate area of Iğdır has a warmer climate than the surrounding provinces. The mild climate has enabled the physical and human conditions of Iğdır to develop differently from some parts of Eastern Anatolia. Iğdır, which is a preferred province for settlement, gives less immigration compared to other Eastern Anatolian provinces. In addition, the warm climate made the agricultural period long and the product range wide. The smoothness of the landforms is another factor that positively affects mechanization in agriculture.It can be said that the two most important economic activities in Eastern Anatolia are agriculture and animal husbandry. For this reason, a significant part of the plain floor of Iğdır is reserved for agricultural lands. Alluvial soils are dominant in the Western Iğdır Plain, and salty soils are dominant in the Eastern Iğdır and Dil Plains. Especially those living in the east of Iğdır Plain cannot use their lands in agriculture due to their infertility. For this reason, those who do animal husbandry mostly prefer mountain villages and plateaus.The research area, Korhan Plateau, is located on the northwest slope of the Great Ararat Mountain, in the territory of Iğdır. Considering the positive effects of the microclimate characteristics of Iğdır province, Korhan Plateau, which is very close to the central district, has similar characteristics. Therefore, Korhan Plateau is in a position that can be considered advantageous in many respects. Animal husbandry and tourism are among the other advantageous features of the plateau. Another factor that can make Korhan Plateau attractive for animal husbandry and tourism can be said to be its location close to the city center.The fact that Korhan Plateau is at a high altitude compared to the city center can make it an alternative place where people living on the plain can go to rest and get fresh air. Because air pollution is an important problem in Iğdır. In this respect, the aim of the study is to reveal the touristic potential of Korhan Plateau together with its geographical features. For this purpose, a qualitative study was carried out by using data collection tools such as field studies and interviews.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sevda KABAN', 'Tolga KORKUSUZ']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Belgü
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/belgu/issue/60401/1081175
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2283205
