Makale Başlığı: Teacher and Student Opinions on the Use of Current Event in Social Studies Course
Özet: In the social studies course, which aims to educate students as active citizens; Incorporating real-world problems in the classroom is one of the effective ways to achieve course objectives. Lesson plans designed with current events can be used to include real-world problems in the classroom. Determining the opinions of students and teachers on the use of current events in social studies lessons is extremely important in reaching the findings about which knowledge and skills students gain. In this study, it was aimed to examine the views of teachers and students about the activities designed using current events in the 4th grade social studies course in primary school. In the research, the case study design, one of the qualitative research designs, was used. The study group of the research consists of 16 students and classroom teachers studying in the 4th grade of a middle socioeconomic level primary school in Kırıkkale. During the eight-week period, the 4th grade Social Studies course "Active Citizenship" learning area acquisitions were carried out by the researcher with activities and practices prepared using current events. As a data collection tool, a semi-structured interview form prepared for teachers and students, developed by the researchers, was used. The data of the research were collected by the researchers and the research data were analyzed through content analysis. According to the results of the study, it was determined that the students were satisfied with the application, they felt happy during the application process, they learned their rights and the role model behaviors were reinforced in the students. The classroom teacher emphasized that the practice, which he considered successful in teaching the acquisitions in the "Active Citizenship" theme, made positive contributions to both his own knowledge and skill level and the knowledge and skill level of the students. Based on the opinions of the students and the classroom teacher, it is possible to state that the practice gives a new perspective to the teachers and students, reinforces the role model behaviors of the students, and presents new alternatives in the teaching of children's rights.
Yazar isimleri: ['Tuğba DÖNMEZ', 'Selma YEL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Türk Eğitim Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/goputeb/issue/73270/1104585
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2378669
