Makale Başlığı: EVALUATION OF ESTRADIOL ON THE HCG TRIGGER DAY IN PREDICTING PREGNANCY AND NEONATAL OUTCOMES OF PATIENTS UNDERGOING IVF/ICSI: A RETROSPECTIVE COHORT STUDY
Özet: Aim: Our aim was to investigate the value of serum estradiol (E2) on human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) trigger day in predicting pregnancy (ongoing pregnancy with live birth, abortion, iu ex, chemical pregnancy) outcomes and neonatal birth weight.Material-Methods: This retrospective study consisted of two groups: Group 1: Women who had live birth, labor after 22 gestational week (n= 417). Group 2: Women with clinical pregnancy: intrauterine ex, abortus, biochemical and anembryonic pregnancy (n=260). Demographic characteristics (maternal and paternal ages, body mass index (BMI), gravidity, abortion, and living child) were recorded. Clinical indications (male factor, diminished ovarian reserve...), duration of ovulation stimulation, day 3 (D3) E2, follicle stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone levels, antral follicle count, total doses of stimulating agents, progesteron and estradiol levels on trigger day, number of oocytes retrieved, number of mature oocytes, endometrial thickness on trigger and oocyte pick-up day were compared between the two groups.Binary Logistic Regression, (Backward LR model) was used to determine the factors affecting the risk of not having a live birth.Results: Totally 677 pregnant women were included in the study. We found increased live birth rate in pregnant whom E2 level was higher on the trigger day. There was a statistically significant relation between E2 level on trigger day and newborn weight in live birth (p=0.005) It was determined that the male factor and age of the women are an important parameter that affect not having a live birth (p<0.05). When the age of the woman increases by 1 unit, the risk of not having a live birth will increase by 5%.Conclusion: The E2 level on hCG trigger day increased, the live birth rate increased while the newborn birth weight decreased. It was also determined that the male factor and age of the women are an important parameter that affect not having a live birth.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kadriye ERDOĞAN', 'İnci KAHYAOĞLU', 'Serdar DİLBAZ', 'İskender KAPLANOĞLU', 'Oya ALDEMİR', 'Ceren KAMACI', 'Emine UTLU ÖZEN', 'Nazlı Tunca ŞANLIER']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Jinekoloji-Obstetrik ve Neonatoloji Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jgon/issue/72893/1106410
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2386237
