Makale Başlığı: Is arthroscopic intervention-assisted fragment-specific fixation technique superior to volar plating in distal radius fractures involving the middle column?
Özet: Purpose: In this study, the clinical and radiological results of volar plating and arthroscopic intervention-assisted fragment-specific fixation techniques used in patients operated for AO Type B-C distal radius fracture in which the medial colon is affected were compared.Materials and Methods: X-ray and clinical records of 98 patients who underwent surgical treatment for radius distal end (DER) fracture between April 2011 and January 2017. The patient groups treated with arthroscopy-assisted fragment-oriented fixation (Group A) and plate screw fixation with a volar approach without arthroscopic intervention (Group B) were compared in terms of joint range of motion, grip strength, and clinical scores. Flexion and extension, ulnar deviation, radial deviation, pronation, and supination angles measured with a standard goniometer were recorded in the joint range of motion measurement. Grip strength was measured with a Jamar dynamometer for power measurement. DASH score was used in clinical evaluation.Results: When the operated wrists of both patient groups were compared, there was no significant difference between the DASH score, grip strength, palmar flexion, and pronation angles of motion. A statistically significant difference was observed between the mean dorsiflexion angles of 55 degrees in group A and 44 degrees in group B, mean radial deviation angles of 25 and 19 degrees, and the mean supination angles of 87 and 80 degrees, respectively.Conclusion: Although arthroscopic-assisted fragment-specific fixation is technically a laborious procedure that requires a learning curve in patients with intra-articular distal radius fractures, it may be beneficial to provide better postoperative results, especially in young patients with high range of motion expectations.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Ümit ÇETİN', 'Abdulkadir POLAT', 'Fırat FİDAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Cukurova Medical Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cumj/issue/72549/1087119
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2306801
