Makale Başlığı: New Generation of Employment and Its Future
Özet: The form of traditional employment style, depending on an employer in a certain workplace-at a certain time for long years, has had a big change. The laborers have started to work in different works for different employers at the same time for shorter hours, furthermore without going to a certain workplace. And flexible working models have started to be the general view of business life. Of course this changement didn't happen by itself. Many factors such as Neo-liberal policies, radical changes in economics and social structure, increasing and expanding formal and informal education opportunities, demographic changes have profoundly influenced the work dynamics and work patterns. The value of the industry sector in general economy ,because of its benefits and large amount of employed, started to give place to the service industry after 1970's and also the number of the women in work world improved. Because of the beginning of digital revolution, cards has been redistributed and the existing structure has changed radically. Mental skills and abilities has taken the place of muscle power and work and professions has reformed according to those skills. In 2011, the concept of industry 4.0 has been expressed in Hannover for the first time. In this days people are considering about factories or workplaces without human. Of course we can easily affirm that development of digital technologies will let for the substructure that makes this ideas possible. This new situation has brought with the differentiation in skills and competencies that employers expect from employees who works in traditional works and professions. As a result of these developments, it is observed that there have been radical changes in the ways and means of job search as well as the form of work. The employees can work for different employers from different parts of the world without any national regulations. For example in “Freelancer.com” more than 26.million independent professions have been working for different employers from all around the world in website design, IT, translation, accounting, finance, design, project management, mobile app, etc. or by the way of “Linkedn”, which has more than 500 thousand members, professionals have been looking for job and also they have been able to find, too. Of course the employers have the same freedom. The study aims to foresee and understand the future of the new generation of employment by using today’s practices and what types of professions the employees are looking for, and also the effects of Industry 4.0
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Haziran 2018
Dergi ismi: Akademia Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asj/issue/40224/479008
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/568017
