Makale Başlığı: An Education Volunteer: Malala Yousafzai
Özet: Education is a key providing control of own life for women. However social norms are going on preclusion of women from right to be education. Educational inequality is one of material omissions of women rights and it is a big obstacle for social and economic development. Gender apartheid exists educationally in family. A typical example of this situation is Islamic Republic of Pakistan. The aim of the study is introducing Malala Yousafzai who damning to education system in Pakistan and problem statement is "how change a young education volunteer fate of girls not have training. This qualitative research is a situation determination and descriptive method was used. In the research integrated approach was adopted. For this purpose, required documents were examined systematically. Malala Yousafzai was living Mingora, Swat Region of North Pakistan. Her family was Sunni Muslim with ethnic origin. Malala Yousafzai's father Ziauddin Yousafzai played a big role her political and social environment. He is a poet, school owner, member of peace group and education volunteer. Taliban disallowed going to school of girls after January 2009 in Mingora. At the same time Taliban burned hundreds of female students. It was decided acquiesce to Taliban for fear of Taliban. However, seventh year pupil Malala Yousafzai wanted for BBC Urdu Department. Local BBC editors suggested to Malala, she use "Gul Makai" (bluebottle) nickname. In 9 October 2012, Malala was 14 aged when she returning home from school, Taliban militants stopped school bus in Mingora. The militants asked "who is Malala" and shoot her. Malala was assigned United Nations Ambassador at Large for Global Education at July 2012. All girls took the opportunity schooling using "I am Malala" slogan. 12 July 2013 was declared as "Malala Day", more than 500 young from 75 countries meet up in centre of United Nations and Malala made speech. "I am Malala" book contain her memories, published in 2013 autumn. Norway Nobel Committee determined, Nobel Peace Prize giving to Malala and Hindu Kailash Satyarthi, children rights defender at 10 October 2014. Malala acknowledged to her father "for teach her how to fly". Malala's thoughts summary is "one child, one teacher, one book and one pen can change world"
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Haziran 2018
Dergi ismi: Akademia Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asj/issue/40224/479021
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/568033
