Makale Başlığı: Jabir b. Zayd and His Position in Ibadi Fiqh
Özet: Born in the first century of Hijri and died in the same century, Jabir b. Zayd (d. 93/711-12) had an important position among the scholars of the Successors of the Companions. Born in Oman, Jabir received his primary education in his hometown and immigrated to Basra with his family at a young age and continued his education here. He was not satisfied with the scholarly environment in Basra, he often went to the Hejaz region and had the opportunity to meet with the Companions and benefit from them. He was a student of important names of the Companions such as Abdullah b. Abbâs, Aisha, Abdullah b. Omar, Anas b. Malik, Abdullah b. Masud, Jabir b. Abdullah, Abu Hurayrah and Abu Said al-Khudri and narrated hadith from them. The statements cited in more than one work that he had grown up with seventy people from the people of Badr and that he understood the knowledge of all these figures except Ibn Abbâs, are important in terms of showing how close he was with the Companions. Jabir, along with the companions, also made friends with famous figures of the generation of the Successors like Hasan Basri, Ibn Abbâs freed slave Ikrima and Muhammad b. Sirin and exchanged knowledge with them. He was praised by the Companions and the scholars of the Successors, and he started to issue fatwas by being accepted by the people in a scholarly center like Basra. It is reported that he trained nearly seventy students, including especially second imam of Ibadiyya school Abu Ubaidah Muslim b. Abu Karimah and its third imam al-Rabiʿ b. Habib. In addition to, Abu Nuh Salih ed-Dahhan, Dimâm b. Sâib and Hayyân al-Aʿrac are some of his disciples.Jabir b. Zayd is accepted by Ibadi scholars as the founder of the Ibadiyya sect; but the Sunni scholars stated that Zayd was not an Ibadi, and that when he was asked about it, he stated that he had been away from them. In addition, Sunni scholars spoke highly of him in the books of tabaqat and rical. According to the Ibadis, this is just a way of concealing belief during the oppressive Umayyad administration. Since the appearance of Jabir, the real imam of the sect, would be dangerous for the future of the movement, Abdullah b. Ibad undertook the task to represent the sect and continued to receive the directives from Jabir. However, due to the subject of this article, it will be tried to determine where he was positioned in Ibadi legal understanding without entering into discussions about his real sect.Jabir b. Zayd reached a certain position in the sciences of hadith, tafsir and fiqh since these sciences had not yet separated from each other as of the time he lived. In this article, it has been tried to touch on his scholarly position in general and his position in fiqh and Ibadi fiqh in particular. In determining the scholarly position of Jabir, different sources were used for each science. For his position in the science of tafsir, the views of his teacher Ibn Abbâs about his, how the commentators talked about him, and the references to his views in the tafsir books were examined. In the science of hadith, the narrations transmitted through Jabir in the hadith books that were famous in the Islamic world and how the tabakât books talked about him. As for the science of fiqh, after mentioning the fiqh narrations transferred from him in general, it has been tried to determine how he was positioned in Ibadi fiqh by examining the references made to Jabir’s views and fatwas in some selected works from the Ibadi fiqh literature. In conclusion, it has been found out that Jabir, who had a high rank in the sciences of tafsir and hadith, was an authority in Ibadi sect so much that he can be considered one of the founders of Ibadi fiqh.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet Faruk GÖKSÜN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: İslam Hukuku Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ihad/issue/70666/1075484
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2261195
