Makale Başlığı: Comparison of Students Placed in Sports Management Education with Different Student Selection Systems: A Mixed Methods Study
Özet: In this research, it is aimed to compare the sports management students placed with the talent examination system and the central placement examination system, within the framework of the requirements of the sports managemers profession. In the research parallel mixed methods research design  which is the one of  mixed methods  was preferred. Quantitative data used in the research were collected with using a questionnaire form developed by the researchers, and a semi-structured metaphor form developed by the researchers for qualitative data. Typical sampling methods from the purposeful sampling method were used to determine the research participants. In this context, students from Ankara University, which using with a special talent exam, and Gazi University, which using the central placement system, were included in the study. In this framework, 121 students from the sports management department participated in the study, but 109 data forms that were valid among 121 forms were included in the analysis. Qualitative data were analyzed with content analysis method and quantitative data were analyzed with descriptive statistical methods. According to the research findings, students who enter the sports management departments with the central placement system are behind in terms of their sportive background, knowledge, interest and equipment compared to the students who enter with the special talent exam. And It is seen that they perceive the physical and health benefits of sports less, and the multi-faceted benefits more. As a result, it can be said that it is not correct to select students to sports management departments through central exams that only make cognitive assessments.
Yazar isimleri: ['Özgün PARASIZ', 'Alperen HALICI']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Akdeniz Spor Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asbid/issue/72735/1149460
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2560106
