Makale Başlığı: RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN FOREIGN TRADE DEFICIT, IMPORTS OF INTERMEDIATE GOODS, MANUFACTURING INDUSTRY EXPORTS AND THE REAL EXCHANGE RATE: THE EXAMPLE OF TÜRKİYE
Özet: In this study, the relations between foreign trade deficit, imports of intermediate goods, manufacturing industry exports and real effective exchange rate in Türkiye in the period covering the years 1990-2020 were researched. Vector Autoregression (VAR) Model was used in the study. In the VAR model, the series must be stationary. Therefore, whether the variables are stationary or not was tested with Augmented Dickey-Fuller (ADF) and Phillips-Perron (PP) unit root tests and the series were found to be non-stationary. The variables were made stationary by taking the first difference of the series. The differenced series show only short-run relationships. The Johansen Co-integration test was applied to the series in order to examine whether there are long-term relationships adjusted for time between the series. Minimum value of delay length is determined as one (1) according to LR (Sequential modified LR test statistic), FPE (Final prediction error), SC (Schwarz) and HQ (Hannan-Quinn) information criteria. "Trace Test Statistics" and "Max Eigenvalue Statistics" results were used to examine whether there is a long-term relationship between the cointegration analysis and the series.There is no cointegrating vector between the variables since the trace test statistics values and the maximum eigenvalue statistics values are less than the 5% critical value. In other words, it was determined that there was no long-term relationship between the variables. Whether there is causality between the variables was examined with the Granger causality test and the reflection of the innovation in one variable to the other variables was followed with the stimulus-response functions. According to Granger causality analysis, it is observed that there is only one-way causality relationship between imports of intermediate goods (LNIGI) and exports of manufacturing industry (LNMIE). A unidirectional causality has been determined from imports of intermediate goods to exports of the manufacturing industry.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 17 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Sakarya İktisat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sid/issue/72576/1174784
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2648667
