Makale Başlığı: Determination of soil and vejetation characteristics of natural rangelands in Nebioğlu region (Zonguldak province)
Özet: The aim of this study was to determine the ecological characteristics of natural rangelands. For this purpose, four different natural pastures were studied in Nebioğlu region in Zonguldak province. When the studies on the subject were examined, it was determined that, while studies were carried out on pastures in almost every region of our country; such a study has not been conducted in the Nebioğlu region before. This situation increases the original value of the research. Vegetation cover in the study areas were identified and the botanical composition was checked at the family level, including Fabaceae, Poaceae and other genus. Soil sampling was done in pasture areas. A total of 40 soil samples, compiled from 10 randomly taken samples from each study area, were subjected to some physical, chemical and biological analyses. In the collected soil samples, soil texture class, actual pH (H2O), lime content, electrical conductivity, total nitrogen, organic carbon, available phosphorus and available potassium contents were analyzed. According to the results of the study, one way-Anova analysis of variance was performed in the SPSS program in order to understand if the Fabaceae, Poaceae, other genus ratios and soil properties are different among the research areas. Duncan test was applied to determine different groups. According to the results of the study, the canopy coverage of vegetation was calculated as 100% in all pasture areas. The highest rate of legumes was in Hallaç rangeland with 48.7%, grasses rate was in Gölyanı range with 39.8%, other genus rate was 30.8% in Alçak and Hallaç pastures; The lowest rate of legumes was found in Alçak pasture with 38.3%, the rate of grasses in Hallaç with 20.5%, and the rate of other families in Gölyanı range with 20.1%. According to the results of the soil analysis, it was determined that the soils in all pasture areas were in the clayey soil class, slightly alkaline and had low electrical conductivity.
Yazar isimleri: ['Şahin PALTA', 'Perihan YÜCESOY']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Türkiye Ormancılık Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tjf/issue/72759/1097437
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2348650
