Makale Başlığı: The Place of Philosophical Treatment in Children's Psychological
Development and Mental Problems
Özet: The most important dynamics of a nation is children. Children's overall health, psychological development, mental health and raising them well guarantee the future of a country. Therefore, these issues are the most important tasks for a nation. The better the children and young people are raised in a country; the higherthe country’s development and welfare will be. It is important that these countries meet their children’s needs, protect them from the danger, teach them to protect themselves, take preventive measures before health problems occur, and provide all kind of services for their health problems. Since the environment and the problems are peculiar to a certain child, the people who communicate with them such asparents, teachers, and health personnel need to learn philosophical treatment. Because, for early response, philosophical treatment should be done thoroughly. Philosophical treatment should be a compulsory lesson to provide children’s access to the treatment in all areas. Graduates of academic circles, where philosophical treatment is a compulsory lesson, will help achieving a virtuous bliss by applying philosophical treatment in every setting. In this study, we will touch upon this issue. In children with mental disorders, characteristics of the social environment is of prime importance in the treatment and progression of the disorder.Because the child can not choose the environment in which he/she is born.The social environment is very important in the preventive behavior and psychological development of the child who can not choose where to be born. It may be a tent or a palace.A child who encounters with philosophical treatment anywhere will be at lower risk.Childhood mental disorders can be listed as follows; mental retardation, attention-deficit disorder, hyperactivity, behavioral disorders, tic disorders, stuttering, enuresis, encopresis, scolionophobia, eating disorders (anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa), autism, maternal deprivation syndrome, learning disorders, etc. In most of these disorders parents and environmental attitudes are very important.Sometimes these attitudes are known to have curative or mitigating effects. Presence of environmental factors with philosophical treatment is a preventive solution for children who need it.We emphasize the necessity for philosophical treatment by parents, pre-school and school teachers, school principals and their assistants, doctors, nurses and health professionals in every field where children can meet. Because, if philosophical treatment is taught to occupational groups from all areas which children are to encounter, the child will be treated in advance without being caught up in mental disorders and developmental disorders. Philosophical Counseling, Guidance and Education got off the ground in many European countries and particularly in Germany during 1980s.However, it should be noted it is not known and practiced yet professionally in our country. Philosophical counseling advocates that this journey is a lifelong process of recovery and healing. In this age, philosophy, besides psychology and psychiatry, becomes popular as an almost independent and alternative method of counseling and therapy. These sciences characterize the individual or individuals who become the focus of the problems as the "patient" to be treated. And, they do not directly deal with the matter of equipping the person with desired qualities or understanding her/him for her/his training.In the 19th century, psychology and psychiatry became independent from the philosophy and narrowed down their content and method, and moved away from the multiple, questioning, analytical and skeptical approach of philosophy. “Certain individual or individuals are not "sick" or "patient candidates".Instead, all people are relevant, because philosophy is the common accumulation of mankind.” Prof.Dr.ŞAHİN FİLİZ
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Haziran 2018
Dergi ismi: Akademia Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asj/issue/40224/479017
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/568027
