Makale Başlığı: Tracing the urban and cultural changes of Madrid after Franco in Antonio Muñoz Molina's novel Los misterios de Madrid
Özet: Antonio Muñoz Molina, one of the most important writers of the contemporary Spanish Literature, has given a special importance to the image of the city in his novels and personified these cities often by describing them with human characteristics. The aim of this article is to examine the city of Madrid, which is at the center of the author's novel Los misterios de Madrid (Secrets of Madrid) and the historical and sociological changes it has experienced between the 60s and the 90s through the mentioned novel. The novel, published in 1992, tells the adventure of Lorencito Quesada, who finds himself in the capital city for an important reason in the early 90s. The main character tells his adventure with a first-person narration. Quesada, who is depicted with the anti-hero features, regularly compares the Madrid of the 60s with the city to which he came back later in the 90s. Actually, the comparison is between the 60s period which was under Francisco Franco’s regime and the early 90s, when the democratization process was just completed. In this study, some issues such as the differentiation in Madrid's urban life and culture, changes in architectural structures and the effect of migration on the population are examined through the novel Los misterios de Madrid. Madrid of the 60s is depicted as a generous capital that welcomes the immigrants, students and travelers from the village to the city through the eyes of the narrator. However, in the 90s, the places that host immigrants in Madrid have changed, and the streets of the city have become dangerous places. With its ironic language and caricatured protagonist, Los misterios de Madrid reveals that the roots of some problems observed in today's Spanish society date back to the 90s. In this regard, the novel has an important sociological aspect.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1193099
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2724773
