Makale Başlığı: How Effective is Organizational Alienation and Covid-19 Phobia on the Relationship between Flexible Working and Life Satisfaction in the Public
Özet: To plan a global world order where technology and competition stand out in the 21st century, where we differ in product and diversity. Especially after the third quarter of the century, the rapid development in technology has affected companies and people all over the world. Changes in ways of doing business, production methods, marketing understanding, needs and expectations have created an irreversible structure in working life. In this new process, concepts such as remote working, teleworking, partial working, flexible working have entered business life. These systems, which are widely applied in the private sector, were not seen much in the Turkish public system until 2020. With the measures taken for public employees within the scope of Covid-19, flexible working systems have been adopted. The effects of this system, which was implemented for the first time in the public sector, on the working life constitute the main element of the research. It is thought that the study will contribute to flexible working practices in the next possible pandemic or similar processes. The aim of this research is to determine the effects of flexible working, covid-19 phobia and organizational alienation on life satisfaction. Administrative staff in Kahramanmaraş Sütçü İmam University (KSU) Avşar campus constitute the main body of the research. The research was supported by fieldwork. Quantitative research method was used in the study, and the data were collected using the questionnaire technique. In the research, the hypotheses formed by examining the domestic and foreign literature were tested with the SPSS 25.0 package program by performing reliability, factor, correlation and regression analysis. As a result of multiple regression analysis, the main model was found to be statistically significant. However, according to simple regression analysis, while covid-19 does not affect life satisfaction, flexible working positively affects organizational alienation negatively. In the study, the mediating effect of organizational alienation and covid-19 phobia in the relationship between flexible working and life satisfaction with a different perspective was also examined.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet Melih EYİTMİŞ', 'Berna KARADANA']
Yayın Yılı: 17 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Sosyal Ekonomik Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/susead/issue/73047/1099893
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2359417
