Makale Başlığı: PREPARATION AND IN-VITRO CHARACTERIZATION OF FLOATING-PULSATILE HOLLOWBEADS CONTAINING INDOMETHACIN
Özet: Objective: Objective: Designing matrix structured controlled release systems using polymers or waxy lipids is a popular option today. Hollowbeads are formulations characterized by the formation of an air-filled cavity inside. In our study, indomethacin was chosen as a model drug. Cetyl alcohol was selected to create the hollowbeads structure, and NaCMC was chosen to achieve long-term release. Kollicoat® MAE100P was used to reduce and/or prevent ulcer formation and control release.Material and Method: The formulations were prepared using a new “wax removal” technique. Different concentrations of ZnCl2 and CaCl2 were used as crosslinkers. In the preformulation studies, 24 different formulations were prepared by changing the amount of NaCMC, the amount of crosslinker, and the crosslinking time. The structure, size, encapsulation efficiency, yield, hollow structure, and long-term release capacity were investigated in the formulations. These parameters were statistically evaluated depending on the amount of NaCMC, the type of crosslinker, the amount of crosslinker, and contact times with the crosslinker.Result and Discussion: Hollowbeads were characterized by SEM and FT-IR. In vitro release studies, release kinetics, and release mechanisms were performed in pH 1.2 HCl and pH 6.8 phosphate buffer media. Swelling, and buoyancy studies were performed. The long-term stability, encapsulation efficiencies, drug loading efficiencies, and yields of the formulations were also evaluated. Two promising formulations (F2 and F19) were found to be able to release indomethacin in both the stomach and intestinal media for 24 hours.
Yazar isimleri: ['Emrah ÖZAKAR', 'Hasan Burak GÜNEŞ', 'Rukiye SEVİNÇ ÖZAKAR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Ankara Üniversitesi Eczacılık Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jfpanu/issue/72856/1130916
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2487163
