Makale Başlığı: Effects of thymoquinone on some cytokine levels in cerulein-induced acute pancreatitis
Özet: In this study, it was aimed to evaluate the possible effects of thymoquinone administration on some cytokine levels in rats with experimental acute pancreatitis. No application was made the animals in group K. TQ group animals were intraperitoneally given 20 mg/kg thymoquinone daily for 9 days. In the AP group animals, acute pancreatitis was induced by intraperitoneal administration of cerulein as first dose 50 µg/kg and 2 hours later 25 µg/kg second dose on the 7th day of the study. Animals in the AP+TQ group were intraperitoneally administered 20 mg/kg thymoquinone daily for 9 days. On the 7th day of the study, after 2 hours from thymoquinone administration, acute pancreatitis was induced by intraperitoneal administration of cerulean as 50 µg/kg and 2 hours later 25 µg/kg. TNF-α, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, AST and ALT levels were determined in the blood samples taken from all animals. In the study, TNF-α level was found to be importantly higher in the acute pancreatitis group compared to the control group, while TNF-α level was significantly lower in the acute pancreatitis group treated with thymoquinone than the acute pancreatitis group. IL-6 and IL-8 levels were higher in the acute pancreatitis group compared to the control group. IL-6 and IL-8 levels were found to be significantly lower in rats with acute pancreatitis treated with thymoquinone compared to the group with acute pancreatitis. While AST and ALT levels in the acute pancreatitis group were significantly increased when compared with the control group, both enzyme levels in the acute pancreatitis group treated with thymoquinone administration were found to be significantly lower than the rats with acute pancreatitis. In the study, the findings obtained in rats with acute pancreatitis which were pre-treated with thymoquinone can be evaluated as that thymoquinone alleviates inflammation due to pancreatitis.
Yazar isimleri: ['Semiha KANAÇ', 'Ercan KESKİN', 'Deniz ULUIŞIK']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Advances in VetBio Science and Techniques
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/vetbio/issue/71840/1063971
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2216716
