Makale Başlığı: EVALUATION OF TWO ISSUES REGARDING THE REGISTERED CAPITAL SYSTEM
Özet: The possibility of adoption of the Registered Capital System for public joint stock companies which was introduced in 1981 with the Capital Markets Law No. 2499 was also introduced for the non-public joint stock companies with the entry into force of the Turkish Commercial Code No. 6102 on 01.07.2012. The same opportunity is also regulated more in detail for public joint stock companies in the (new) Capital Markets Law No. 6362, entered into force on 30.12.2012, compared to the old Law No. 2499. It is witnessed that many public and non-public companies that see the convenience and advantages of this system include this system in their articles of association, either in the establishment or afterwards. In this study, two problems related to this system, one practical and the other theoretical, will be examined.The first problem, which is understood to cause hesitations in practice, is whether the newly issued shares will be preferred shares in capital increases through external funds made by the board of directors in the registered capital system in a joint stock company which has two preferred share groups, if the board of directors is not authorized to issue preferred shares.The second problem, whose theoretical nature is more dominant, is whether an amendment in the articles of association of the company will be required as a result of the capital increases made by the board of directors, and if it is required, whether this transaction can be technically considered as an "amendment of articles of association" in accordance with the TCC.In our paper, after briefly introducing the registered capital system, these two problems will be discussed and answered in the light of legislation, doctrine and practice.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 15 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Yeditepe Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yuhfd/issue/73070/1191347
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2717579
