Makale Başlığı: Skin Microbiota and Effect on Wound Treatment
Özet: Today, microbiota is a community of microorganisms that are thought to have an effect on almost all vital functions in the human body. In the body, the intestinal microbiota is the region where microorganisms are most concentrated in terms of both amount and diversity. For this reason, most of the studies have been conducted on the intestinal microbiota.  The skin microbiota is directly affected by the external environment as much as the gut, and plays an important role in the physical barrier function of the skin and skin immunity. The change in the microbiota due to various factors is called dysbiosis, and is thought to be associated with some diseases. A chronic wound has a poor response to treatment, as a result of which the healing process takes longer than expected, and the recovery is not always a success. Chronic wounds are a serious burden on the health system, and increase morbidity and mortality. Wound treatment is a part of healthcare, and it encumbers the patient and their next of kin as much as physicians, health workers and the health system both financially and emotionally. Research on effective treatment of chronic wounds has been continuing. In this treatment, various methods are used to accelerate the healing process and to promote the closure of the wound without intractability so that the chronicity of the wound can be prevented. Many studies discuss the curative role of treatments aimed at correcting dysbiosis. The applicability of the same treatment in relation to chronic wound is still a matter for debate. In this review, the skin microbiota, its function in wound healing and its role in chronic wound treatment have been evaluated in the light of current literature.
Yazar isimleri: ['Pinar YILDIZ']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Osmangazi Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/otd/issue/73231/1095547
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2341150
