Makale Başlığı: Looking at Women's Labor and Working Life from Oku Magazine
Özet: In the 1950s, when the daughters of families coming from rural areas started to study and women started to work in jobs that did not require specialization, this situation became one of the most discussed issues by conservatives. This study aims to examine the working life of women in the articles published in the journal "Islamin İlk Emir Oku", which started its publication life in 1961 and was closed in 1979 after 209 issues were published. While studying social problems, it may be beneficial to deal with the subject before and after. Therefore, before and after the publication of the magazine, various works such as books, magazine articles and films about the professional life of women were used.In general, the articles in the journal are not academic. They used colloquial language and sometimes had difficulties in organizing their thoughts. To give an example on our subject, a few paragraphs after saying that a woman can work if she fulfills the Islamic conditions, they said that it is more appropriate for a woman to stay at home. In addition, most of the articles are repetitive. Although they dealt with the same subject at certain intervals, their thoughts and perceptions of the subject did not change much, and they could not develop a different argument.The writers of Oku magazine objected to women's work on the grounds of how and traditional culture. According to them, it is possible for women to work only in cases of necessity. Even in this case, the woman should get permission from her husband or guardian, take care of her veiling and pay attention to privacy. The purpose of studying for hijab girls who showed up at universities in the 1980s is not to work, perhaps because of the understanding of this period. Being a good wife and mother is a priority. Soon, however, the conservative woman became a partner in public experience as a teacher, physician, and lawyer.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa TAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Akif
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/akif/issue/70955/1108431
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2394526
