Makale Başlığı: Microclimatic Anayysis of City Pieces with Different Characters: Case of Kayseri
Özet: As a result of rapid population growth in today's cities, the number of residences and impermeable surfaces are also increasing. In parallel with this situation in cities, the formation of urban heat islands (UHI), which can be considered among the most prominent triggers of global warming, has emerged. UHI analysis and analyzes for climate-balanced urban design such as reducing the effects on the city and improving the bioclimatic comfort situation have an important place among the research topics. In this context, in the study, floor heights, amount of green area, amount and type of impermeable surfaces etc. microclimatic detailed analyzes of urban parts with different characteristics have been taken into focus. The study was carried out in the city of Kayseri. Three different city parts of the same size in Yeniköy, Alpaslan and Erenköy Neighborhoods within the city limits were determined as the study area. The current conditions of these areas were simulated with ENVI-met software. As a result of the simulations, air temperature, relative humidity, wind speed and average radiant temperature (MRT) maps were produced. As a result of the study, it was determined that the heat stress increased and the bioclimatic comfort level decreased, especially in areas where impermeable surfaces, more green areas, and high-rise buildings are dense. Relative humidity values showed a change inversely proportional to the air temperature. It has been determined that the wind speed reaches high rates in open areas and decreases in areas where the structure or vegetation is intense. It was concluded that in the areas where the plants are located, the radiant temperatures decrease pointwise and are higher in the other areas.
Yazar isimleri: ['Murat YÜCEKAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Artium
Yayın sayfa url: http://artium.hku.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/72360/1125322
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2463694
