Makale Başlığı: Analysis of Basic Education Textbooks in Terms of Religious Concepts and Symbols
Özet: One of the main aims of education is to help people understand and define themselves. In addition to knowing herself/himself, s/he must also help to understand other beings and the causes of existence in the world. On this account, people can understand the world and fulfill the requirements of the aims of the creation. There are some rules and requirements defining the abilities and responsibilities of a person in the world, just as a job description that defines the work and responsibilities that a worker has to undertake in any workplace. People who understand and read these rules correctly will be able to do the task expected from them to do. When s/he does this, he will be happy and actualize himself as Kohlberg said. Education is important role at this point. The ultimate aim of educational systems is to teach people the reasons of existence and the requirements of existence in the world. In other words, it is to make people's task descriptions and to teach people that task description. It is considered to be efficient in the way that they can accomplish this.In this sense, it is said that education systems are written in a planned and regular manner in accordance with aims. The reflected dimension of the curriculums is the textbooks. If the textbooks are well prepared and applied, the chances of success increase. That is why textbooks must be equipped with information that will help people understand all the beings and the world, starting from themselves. People need to understand the concept of creation well in order to know and understand them and all beings correctly. For this reason, the concept of creation in textbooks should be systematically covered and professionally processed in all lessons, not limited to the lessons in which only religious information is given. It is a spiritual value to understand the nature and creation of existence. As the Ministry of National Education has stated, since spiritual values are the ultimate goal of all education, they shouldn’t be dealt with in a separate curriculum and should be covered in every lessons. The aim of this study is to examine the basic education textbooks in terms of the fact of creation.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bayram ÖZER', 'Adnan KALKAN', 'Cem AKSOY', 'Alaaddin DENIZ', 'Abdulmutalip KOKTAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Disiplinlerarası Eğitim Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jier/issue/72377/1141747
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2530237
