Makale Başlığı: Comparison of non-invasive imaging methods and laboratory findings on non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in childhood
Özet: Aim: Diagnosis and follow-up of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in children with practical and non-invasive methods have been researched for many years. Ultrasonography (USG), Shear wave elastography (SWE), and Magnetic Resonance (MR) are thought to help demonstrate the impairment which is also displayed in liver function tests. This study aims to identify the most effective imaging method among liver scanning methods in exhibiting the fatty condition of the liver and laboratory tests.Material and Method: This study was carried out on a population of 84 children who applied to the clinic. The relationship between the diagnostic performances of three different noninvasive methods [USG, MR, and SWE] and liver function tests in children with suspected NAFLD was analyzed. Age, BMI (body mass index), waist circumference, gender, liver function tests, total cholesterol, triglyceride, and Homeostasis Model Assesment-Insulin Rezistance (HOMA-IR) parameters of NAFLD and control group were put into comparison and their relationship with USG, MR, and SWE imaging methods were also analyzed.Results: There is no statistically significant relationship between hepatosteatosis grade and the mean SWE (p>0.05) while there is a positive and statistically significant relationship between waist circumference and liver long axis values at 33.3% level (p: 0.036; p<0.05). On the other hand, there is no statistically significant difference in laboratory values between those with and without NAFLD based on MR and SWE examinations (p>0.05).Conclusion: Abdominal USG, SWE, and dynamic MR examinations are very essential to demonstrate liver functions and liver pathology in children with non-invasive methods. It is also useful in patient follow-up. In this study, no difference was detected between SWE and MR findings, and we think that the SWE examination will be more suitable in estimating liver functions in follow-up as opposed to costly MR examination.
Yazar isimleri: ['Caner DOĞAN', 'Meryem KEÇELİ BAŞARAN', 'Okan GÜRKAN', 'Seda GÜLEÇ GEYLANİ']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Health Sciences and Medicine
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jhsm/issue/73169/1131140
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2488132
