Makale Başlığı: An Evaluation of the Contribution of Fayol and Weber, Two Pioneers of Classical Management Theory, to Management
Özet: Management is a group activity carried out cooperatively to achieve a specific goal or objectives. In addition to management as a more inclusive concept, public administration focuses on the concept of public interest; It is an administrative mechanism that includes the administrative activities of the state and implements the implementation of its policies in order to achieve the goals and objectives determined by the political decision makers. Henry Fayol and Max Weber, who are at the center of the study, are among the best in the world in this field with their work in both management and public administration. In his work titled "General and Industrial Management" published in 1916, Fayol developed a uniform organization and management model and defended the view that the general principles of management could be applied to all organizations. Fayol is the first management scientist who analyzes management activities in an analytical way and separates these activities into their functions. In this classic work in the field of management science, Fayol systematically addressed the management function. Max Weber is one of the foremost sociologists of all time. He studied economics, law, history and philosophy in general, and his academic contributions helped to establish the field of sociology. His views led him to be seen as one of the two greatest figures in the classical period of sociology, with Émile Durkheim. Although he lived at the beginning of the twentieth century, his influence remained as many of his ideas were still related to contemporary social conditions. In this study, the contributions of Fayol and Weber to the management process will be examined and an evaluation will be made on the criticisms of the classical management theory.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Akif ÖZER', 'Abdulgaffar ÇİFTÇİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Fenerbahçe Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/fbujoss/issue/70817/1094094
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2335310
