Makale Başlığı: The Relationship between Women's Education Levels and Animal Foods Purchasing and Cooking Practices
Özet: Knowledge, attitudes and practices about purchasing and cooking animal foods such as milk, meat, eggs and their products can be main factors in preventing the occurrence of food borne diseases. In this study, it was aimed to determine the relationship between the educational levels of women who cook at home at least once a day and their practices of purchasing and cooking animal foods. A total of 400 women living in the central districts of Erzurum provin- ce participated in this cross-sectional study. It was determined that while the priority of primary and secondary school graduate women in purchasing food products was determined as the price of the product, university graduates paid attention to the brand of the product (P<0.001). The majority of the participants (78.5%) considered the taste and textu- re of cheese as an important quality criterion when purchasing cheese. It was detected that the most preferred meat cooking methods of women were boiling (47.5%) and roasting (35.8%). On the other hand, it has been revealed that the university graduate women’s most preferred method of cooking meat is baking in the oven, and the least preferred method is cooking with dried legumes (P<0.001). Among the participants, it was determined that university graduate women preferred to cook eggs apricots; secondary school graduates preferred to boil them soft, and primary school graduates preferred to boil them very hard. This study has shown that women's educational level has an effect on the characteristics they consider when purchasing foods and the cooking methods they prefer. As a result of the study, it was determined that the level of education led to the right attitudes and behaviors related to nutrition.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Erciyes Üniversitesi Veteriner Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ercivet/issue/73646/1204154
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2815856
