Makale Başlığı: The Views of Social Studies Teachers on Distance Education During the Pandemic Process
Özet: During the COVID-19 pandemic period, courses in schools affiliated to the Ministry of National Education in Türkiye were carried out through distance education. In this process, secondary school social studies teachers encountered some positive and negative situations related to distance education. In this study, it is aimed to reveal the views of social studies teachers who have experienced distance education in their classes due to the pandemic, which has been effective since the spring semester of the 2019-2020 education year, on the positive and negative aspects of the process. The research was designed in survey pattern. Quantitative data were presented with the answers given by social studies teachers to the scale of “Distance Education Perceptions of Teachers Scale”. The data of this research were obtained from social studies teachers working in state and private schools in 5 central districts of Antalya province. The study group consists of a total of 211 social studies teachers. As a result of the quantitative research, it was examined whether the data obtained from the "Distance Education Perceptions" scale showed significant differences according to teachers' gender, age, marital status, length of service, school type and weekly teaching time. In the analysis of the data, independent sample t-test and one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) were used due to the normal distribution of the data. As a result of the analysis, it was found that teachers' perceptions of distance education differed significantly according to gender, marital status, school type and age, it was determined that there was no significant difference according to the length of service and weekly teaching time. In line with the findings obtained, the discussion was conducted by considering the result and the relevant literature. A number of recommendations were presented to researchers and authorities.
Yazar isimleri: ['Suat MERİÇ', 'Hilmi DEMİRKAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Temel Eğitim Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iperj/issue/73693/1191586
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2718507
