Makale Başlığı: From Sarıqah to Intertextualıty: The Case of Abd Al-Qāhir Al-Jurjānī
Özet: The aim of this study is to examine the approach of Abdülkâhir al-Cürcânî (d. 471/1078-79) to this theory within the framework of the views put forward within the scope of serika in the classical Arabic literary criticism tradition and to take his views corresponding to the term intertextuality within the framework of this theory. In this respect, the study has been limited to Abdülkâhir al-Cürcânî's positive/negative views on seriq within the scope of literary criticism and his views that meet the theory of intertextuality within the methods of approach to this theory. In the study, serica theory in Arabic literary criticism works in general, and Abdülkâhir el-Cürcânî's views on serika, which corresponds to textual relations in particular, are presented. Serika theory is based on how it was handled in Jürcânî by briefly mentioning the course of this theory from the first periods, especially the classical Arab critics. At the same time, while the methods of description, exemplification and description are discussed in the study, sample data explaining the theory found in Jürcânî are also included. From this point, the main purpose of the article is to justify the fact that the term intertextuality was not first coined in the modern period in the sixties, on the contrary, it has been mentioned in different terms since the classical periods, and this term is met by serika theory in Jürcânî. Therefore, examining Cürcânî's views on intertextuality in this context is important in terms of revealing the artistic value of the theory. In this way, he touched upon many issues related to intertextuality in the context of verse theory. The phenomenon of intertextuality has been examined in the axis of the concept of "سرقات شعرية" (serikât-ı şi'riyye), which is a very common usage in Abdülkâhir al-Cürcânî's works named Delâilü'l-i'câz and Esrârü'l-belâga. It is the main problematic of the study to reveal that Cürcânî characterizes this issue quite comprehensively under the term serika.
Yazar isimleri: ['Müfide AĞIRKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: BEÜ İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/beuifd/issue/73852/1179697
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2669218
