Makale Başlığı: The Effects of Inhaler Aromatherapy in Women with Essential Hypertension on Vital Signs and Anxiety: A Crossover Clinical Trial
Özet: Objective: This study was carried out to determine the effect of inhaled aromatherapy applied to women with essential hypertension on blood pressure, pulse and anxiety levels.Methods: This crossover design, single-blind study was conducted with 40 women with essential hypertension. Data were collected over two periods using a fully automatic sphygmomanometer, State Anxiety Scale, and recordings made with the BIOPAC MP 35 Data Acquisition System (Version 3.7.3, Santa Barbara, USA). In the first period of the study, inhaler aromatherapy was applied to the women once a day for two weeks, for five minutes, with a 5:3:2 ratio of lavender, bergamot and ylang-ylang aromatic oils. On the other hand, women receiving placebo were given sunflower oil inhalation once a day for five minutes for two weeks. After a one-week washout period, the groups changed places and the second phase of the study was started and the practices were continued for two more weeks. Blood pressure and pulse rate were measured once a week to determine efficacy; in addition, State Anxiety Scale and Data Acquisition System records were taken once at the beginning and end of each period.Results: It was found that in women with essential hypertension in the first week of inhaled aromatherapy, decreasing systolic (p<0.01) and diastolic blood pressure (p=0.001), pulse rate (p<0.01), State Anxiety Score (p<0.001), body temperature (p˂0.05) and a significant decrease in respiratory depth (p˂0.05) from Data Acquisition System records.Conclusion: The results of the study showed that inhaled aromatherapy had positive effects on blood pressure, pulse and anxiety level for women with essential hypertension. For this reason, it may be recommended to include aromatherapy in nursing practices.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hafize ÖZDEMİR', 'Gürsel ÖZTUNÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 5 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Ordu Üniversitesi Hemşirelik Çalışmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ouhcd/issue/73709/975802
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1897180
