Makale Başlığı: Kahkaha Terapisinin Fiziksel ve Ruhsal Sağlığa Etkisi: Sistematik Derleme
Özet: Objective: This systematic review was conducted to determine the effects of laughter therapy on physical and mental health in individuals with different health conditions. Materials and Methods: The PICOS format was used to determine eligibility criteria in this systematic review. The PRISMA checklist was used for data summarization and result reporting. In this systematic review assessed randomized controlled trials published in Turkish and English in the EBSCO, Web of Science, Wiley Online Library, PubMed, National Thesis Center, National Academic Network and Ulakbim databases from January 2005 to November 2020. The keywords "laughter therapy OR laughter yoga" were used for the search. The quality assessment of the included studies was performed with the Critical Appraisal Checklist tool prepared by The Joanna Briggs Institute. This study was completed with 16 randomized controlled trials meeting the research criteria. Results: At the end of the study, the laughter therapy was found to be effective in reducing pain, depression, stress, and anxiety in individuals and increasing sleep quality. There was limited evidence for the effect of therapy on somatization, blood glucose, blood pressure, endorphin, and cortisol levels. Conclusion and recommendations: It was determined that laughter therapy can be considered as an appropriate approach for public health nurses to improve the physical and mental health of individuals and its effectiveness can be tested. Laughter therapy can be recommended by healthcare professionals working in hospitals or community centers as a non-pharmacological, simple, inexpensive and therapeutic method that they can benefit from in care.
Yazar isimleri: ['Elif ÜNER', 'Ayşe SEZER BALCI', 'Hasibe KADIOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 16 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Halk Sağlığı Hemşireliği Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jphn/issue/73789/1102843
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2371755
