Makale Başlığı: Herpes Simplex Virus Encephalitis: A University Hospital Experience
Özet: Herpes simplex virus (HSV) encephalitis is a brain parenchymal infection that starts sporadic, acutely and can result in death. In this study, the patients we followed with the diagnosis of HSV encephalitis were examined in light of the literature.Patients with a diagnosis of HSV encephalitis over 18 years of age, whose diagnosis was confirmed by cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) HSV polymerase chain reaction positivity, followed in the Infectious Diseases Clinic of Fırat University Hospital between 2013-2021 were included in the study. Demographic data, clinical signs, symptoms, laboratory results and prognosis of the patients were analyzed.Sixteen patients were included the study. Nine (56.3%) of the patients were female and seven (43.7%) were male. The mean age was 55.4±16.3. Confusion, fever, nausea/vomiting, and headache were the most common clinical symptoms and signs. In CSF microscopy, lymphocytic pleocytosis was detected in 15 (93.8%) patients, erythrocytes were detected in 10 (62.5%) patients, and no cells were detected in one patient. Pathological findings were found in all patients who underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The most common areas of involvement were the temporal lobe, frontal lobe, and insular cortex. While no pathological findings were found in two (18.2%) of 11 patients who underwent electroencephalography (EEG), periodic lateralized epileptiform discharge was detected in one (9.1%) patient, and sharp waves were detected on an insufficient basic bioelectrical activity in eight (72.7%) patients. Intravenous acyclovir was started in all patients in an average of 3.25 days after symptom onset. Corticosteroid therapy was performed in one (6.3%) patient and decompressive craniectomy was performed in two (12.5%) patients to reduce intracranial pressure. Three (18.8%) patients died.The systemic prodromal symptoms that precedes the neurological manifestations of HSV encephalitis complicates the diagnosis and causes delay. During the COVID-19 period, symptoms such as fever, tachypnea, and altered consciousness can be confused as hypoxia or a neurological complication of COVID-19. When CSF examinations, cranial MRI, and EEG were evaluated together in patients with clinical suspicion, it was thought to provide an important diagnostic clue.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşe SAĞMAK TARTAR', 'Sümeyra KAYALI', 'Ayhan AKBULUT']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: ANKEM Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ankemderg/issue/72177/1163257
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2601334
