Makale Başlığı: Eskişehir Organization of CHP According to the Inspection Reports of Party Inspectors (1940-1943)
Özet: Founded on September 9, 1923, the Republican People’s Party established the institution of party inspectorship in order to gain control over the party organization and strengthen the centralist structure of the party. The importance of the party inspectorship system, whose roots go back to the Ittihad ve Terakki Party (Union and Progress Party), increased over time and its sphere of influence expanded. The control of the party inspectors was not limited to the party organization, but also included the community centers established as cultural institutions in 1932. With a directive issued in 1939, intra-party control in the provinces where there was no party organization was carried out by the inspectors sent from the General Secretariat. Party inspectors, whose duties and powers were regulated according to the CHP Inspection Directive, inspected the regions and submitted their reports to the CHP General Secretariat. With the amendment made on 1 September 1940, the number of party inspectors was increased to twenty-five. Inspectors discussed the social, economic, cultural and educational status of the city in the reports they prepared, as well as the party organizations.Adnan Menderes, Sadettin Uraz and Celal Arat, who were appointed as Eskişehir party inspector by the CHP, inspected Eskişehir and its districts between 1940 and 1943 and presented detailed reports on the region to the party headquarters. With these reports, the basic needs of the region, the organization and activities of the party in the region, the attitudes of the people of the region towards the government and the party were determined. In addition, these reports, which provide important data about the center-provincial relations of the party, are very important in terms of showing the reflections of the policies followed in the single-party period in the provinces.
Yazar isimleri: ['Cengiz ŞAVKILI', 'Meral MAVİŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Atatürk Yolu Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ankuayd/issue/72712/1148528
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2556492
