Makale Başlığı: Medication Review in Turkish Older Adults at Community Pharmacy: A Pilot Study by Using Medication Appropriateness Index
Özet: Objective: The study aimed to evaluate medication review in older adults (≥65 years) at a community pharmacy by identifying the prevalence of potentiality inappropriate medication and calculating medication appropriateness index.Methods: This descriptive study was carried out in a community pharmacy for six months. The older adults (≥65 years) using one or more medications were included. During clinical pharmacist-led medication review; the medication appropriateness index was calculated for each medication of older adults. Potentially inappropriate medications were evaluated according to the 2019 American Geriatrics Society Beers Criteria®.Result: Among a hundred older adults, 46.0% were female. The median age of the patients was 75.5 (IQR, 68.0-78.8). The median number of medications was 9.0 (7.0-10.0). Polypharmacy has been detected in 97.0% of the patients. At least one potentially inappropriate medication was detected in 63.0% of them. The median score of medication appropriateness index score was 53.0 (IQR: 38.6-67.9).Conclusion: To best our knowledge, this is the first study of clinical pharmacist-led medication review by calculating the medication appropriateness index carried out at a community pharmacy in Turkey. There was a high rate of potentially inappropriate medication with a higher score of medication appropriateness in older adults. This study highlights the importance of medication review led by the clinical pharmacist at community pharmacy to optimize medication usage in older adults.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nazlıcan UÇAR', 'Öznur ALTIPARMAK', 'Mesut SANCAR', 'Betül OKUYAN']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Clinical and Experimental Health Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/clinexphealthsci/issue/72731/1012114
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2035977
