Makale Başlığı: Challenges Of Precision Agriculture Application In Pistachio Orchards: Factor Analysis From Iranian Agricultural Experts' Perspective
Özet: Iran's agriculture is globally well-known for its pistachio product. However, traditional management approaches and poor application of proper new technologies have brought reduced productivity and environmental hazards. In the information age, in order to transition from traditional to modern horticultural model, the application of precision agriculture model is appropriate. Therefore the purpose of the present study is to determine the challenges of precision agriculture application in pistachio orchards in Semnan province. The research method was survey. The statistical population were 187 horticultural experts of Semnan and counties' agricultural research center. By of Cochran formulae, 124 people were selected as sample. It was used a stratified random sampling method. In field study step, it was used the questionnaire as the main research tool. It was confirmed the face and content validity and reliability of research tool. The results of prioritizing the challenges of application of PA in pistachio orchards showed that the respondents’ point view, the lack of economic justification for PA from the point of view of gardeners in the area, fragmentation of lands and lack of integrated land management, lack of the technical infrastructure required for PA in orchards had the highest priority. Also, shortage of PA researches and the gap between research and extension, poor management of gardeners in the use of precision agricultural technologies, lack of providing consulting services to gardeners were identified as the least priority. Exploratory factor analysis results have demonstrated the exploitation of four factors, including investment and supportive, structural, human resource development and supply, finally organizational and program challenges.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehrdad NİKNAMİ']
Yayın Yılı: 13 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Tekirdağ Ziraat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jotaf/issue/72560/972740
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1885620
