Makale Başlığı: UNDERSTANDING THE ROLE OF SELF-COMPASSION IN THE FOCUS OF ADOLESCENTS' SOCIAL MEDIA USE
Özet: In this study, the views of adolescents on the use of social media in the focus of self-compassion were examined. The study group of the research consists of 26 adolescents between the ages of 13-16. In this study, phenomenology design, one of the qualitative research methods, was used. The data of the study were collected with a semi-structured interview form developed by the researchers. The obtained data were analyzed through content analysis. According to the research findings, the participants; He actively uses Instagram, Youtube, Snapcat, Tiktok, Twiter applications for an hour to eight hours. It has been observed that adolescents use social media most frequently to follow accounts related to their interests, to follow peers, to follow entertainment and phenomena. In addition to being happy with the shares they follow on social media, it has been concluded that adolescents often have negative feelings when they see the posts. After following the social media posts, it was concluded that the themes of finding his external view inadequate, wanting to take part in that post with his friends, feeling embarrassing or even feeling unhappy, feeling inadequate in living conditions and financially, depressed mood, feeling angry frequently repeated. Adolescents stated that when they follow these posts, they criticize their own bodies and find themselves less successful. It has been found that some of the adolescents do not share and are only viewers on social media or share from a 'private' account. When social media posts do not receive a high rate of likes or interactions, they feel sad, embarrassed, and regretful, and some of them stated that they would delete the post in such a situation. While some of the participants stated that they would not care about their social media posts when they received interaction with a cynical attitude, some of them stated that they felt sad, angry, uneasy, resentful, and lack of self-confidence. Adolescents stated that when they watch the posts of phenomena, they can compare themselves with them, and some of them do not negatively affect their posts.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kadriye ÖZYAZICI', 'Oğuz EMRE']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Anadolu Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ulasbid/issue/70080/1124705
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2461233
