Makale Başlığı: Defense Studies in the Bosphorus After the 93 War
Özet: Ottoman statesmen had begun to attach even more importance to defence of straits in order to protect borders of the empire which had weakened as of 19th century. Decrease of/in land force of Ottoman State made the straits vulnarible to external dangers. Increasingly expansion and strenghtening of weapons industry reflected on maritime force and led strong navies to emerge. In line with this, Straits of the Dardanelles (Strait of Çanakkale) and the Bosphorus (Strait of İstanbul) made defence of the empire and therefore İstanbul the capital important. Royal (British) navy’s threatening İstanbul, even though it was for a short time, by passing through the Dardanelles during the period of Sultan Selim III (1789-1807), increased virtually Ottoman statesmen’s attention to the issue. After that date, foreign specialists were brought for defence of the straits; reports were received; and fortresses (castles) and fortifications according to new conditions were built or current ones were strenghtened.Importance was attached separately and elaborately to defence of both straits, and it is understood from archive documents that great effort was exerted to take measures which had been stated in line with reports given by specialists although there were financial problems. It is seen from document search/review concerning the subject, an issue which has caught our attention here is that the Dardanelles was of more priority. But, this situation should not mean that Bosphorus was neglected. Because, it is understood that each commission, which had made examination along the Dardanelles and had made report for it, also visited/came to the Bosphorus and drew up report similarly.  Another issue which catchs the attention in defence of strait is that torpedo and mine technology, along with fortresses (castles) and fortifications, took a place in the defence in Ottoman State within a short time and effectively. In addition to buying mines and deploying them along the strait, their joint production was tried together with German Empire, but domestic production could not be commenced.This article addresses defensive works done along the Bosphorus, and the period from Russo-Ottoman War of 1877-1878 (The '93 War) to opening of Gallipoli (Çanakkale) Front of 1915 in World War I. Ottoman archive documents constitute the main references of our study. We will address the subject in a way and to the extent that it reflected on the archive, and we will try to evaluate the study through works and memoirs.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet OĞUZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Fenerbahçe Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/fbujoss/issue/70817/1114354
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2418360
