Makale Başlığı: Traces Of The I And The Other In The Nazires (=Similar Poetry): The Journey Of I To We  In The Example Of Mustafa Ali's Poetry And The Nazires written for his poetry With "We" Redıf (=Rhyme)
Özet: It is known that the same or similar poems/works were written within the scope of nazire tradition in classical Turkish poetry. Such poems are basically based on writing a similar or better example of a sample or model poem. It is also important that these poems, which are similar in many ways, show the same feelings, dreams, thoughts and goals. In one aspect, the model poem; It can be thought that it was a source of inspiration or an interpreter for other poets who tried to write a similar poetry. The content of the model poem is a guide for other poets trying to express themselves. In addition, defining and positioning oneself through this model poem is a reflection of different emotions and feelings. It is historically significant that the poems, are a mirror of the living world, can deal with similar subjects. It is important that a poet conveys information about himself, that others find traces of themselves around the same poem, and that they express themselves in this way, in terms of being a manifestation of the reality of the information and feelings given by the poets and the reactions they receive. In the context of nazire poetries, it is possible for each poet to describe her/his "I=self" with "we". In one sense, the " personalities" united around the model poem, form the we-consciousness. While this situation establishes a network of relations in terms of togetherness, they actually convey/describe the others around themThere are many signs and indications in the poems in terms of containing the information about the poet. The expressions in which the words "I" and "we" are used are at the forefront of the issues that explain the characteristics of the poets, Gelibolulu Mustafa Ali's poem with "we" redif (rhyme, repeated voices), can be evaluated in this context and can be supported by historical data. This poem also carries clues about Ali's personal attitudes and behaviors, worldview, dreams and emotions. The poems written similar to this poem of Ali are important in that both carry traces of their poets and contain the elements of "I" and "other" around the "we" redif. In this article, the poem of Gelibolulu Mustafa Ali from and the nazires written to his poem will be evaluated in terms of conveying the self/I and other elements within the framework of the nazire tradition and then the content analysis.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet İÇLİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Akademik Dil ve Edebiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/akaded/issue/73104/1169198
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2625130
