Makale Başlığı: Analysis of the Relationship between External Debt Stock, Inflation and Economic Growth for Turkiye: Vector Autoregressive Models- Granger Causality Test and Toda-Yamamoto for the Period 1970-2020
Özet: In a sense, in the same sense as an important external problem for developing countries as well. In cases where domestic consumption is appropriate, payments are made in foreign purchases because of low income from consumption. Although it is expressed negatively, it is possible to achieve the domestic economic balance with a good shopping external debt process. In particular, economic growth is discussed in theoretical education. The prices listed for this are among the subjects that benefit from the resources taken from the resources benefited from. Whether the economies for this environment are negative or positive from the economic point of view, it will be from the economic budget and the management. In this study, Turkey's economic 1970-2020 foreign debt, inflation and growth were tested with VAR, Granger Causality Test and Toda-Yamamoto Analysis. From the external outlook of real GDP and rollback of inflation, from the stock used to evaluate the choice of GDP and from the control of inflation, from the choice of GDP, from the buy-back of real GDP, from the external stock of real GDP and from the control of inflation from the evaluation of the choice of GDP from the external debt analysis and Select GH from external debt in the analysis of the conductivity of inflation in the choice of GDP. That's because GDP is the Granger cause. In the Toda-Yamamoto test, on the other hand, it is obtained because there is causality from external debt stock to GDP and inflation, from GDP to external debt stock and inflation, and from inflation to external debt stock and GDP.
Yazar isimleri: ['Guldenur ÇETİN']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Namık Kemal Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Meslek Yüksek Okulu Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/nkusbmyo/issue/73213/1184476
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2689309
