Makale Başlığı: Samples of Kalemişi Work of the Çinili Bath Restoration with Zeyrek
Özet: Zeyrek Çinili Bath is a double bath, which is important in terms of its architecture,traditional heating system and decorative elements. As a result of the Çinili Bath Conservation-Repair and Rehabilitation Project, which was started in 2010, the bath function ofthe building and the resulting kalemişi will be preserved.This structure was built in order to bring income to the foundations established byBarbarossa Hayrettin Pasha in Istanbul. Although Zeyrek Çinili Hamam does not have aconstruction or revival inscription, there is no doubt that it was built by the Chief ArchitectSinan. The name of the bath is mentioned in the biographies that list the structuresbuilt by Mimar Sinan and in the charter of Barbaros Hayrettin Pasha. Mimar Sinan hasalways been in search of new ones in the plan scheme of bath architecture, provided thathe adheres to the basic principles of Turkish classical baths.As a result of the restoration works, the kalemişi in the men’s and women’s dressingareas of the bath, which added a different dimension to the building, was brought tolight. The first layer of kalemişi during the repairs after the Cibali fires belong to 1850.The most qualified kalemişi that have survived to the present day are dated to the years1850-1890. The kalemişi, which are dated to the 19th century and applied in two periods,are brought to the literature for the first time with this article. While the decorations ofthe lower sections are in layers applied on top of each other, the black and white kalemişiwork on the upper sections of the walls and the dome transition is in a single layer. Acomparison was made between the kalemişi added to the Classical Period buildings inthe 19th century and these decorations, and the similarities were revealed with examples.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 27 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: FSM İlmi Araştırmalar İnsan ve Toplum Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/fsmia/issue/70588/1136522
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2510172
