Makale Başlığı: Determination of Optimum PGPB-Priming Protocol on Germination and Seedling Growth in Lentil
Özet: Plant growth promoting bacterias (PGPBs) can be described as bacterial strains increasing water and nutrient uptake, gaining nitrogen and phosphorus to plants by biological nitrogen fixation and phosphate mineralization, promoting plant growth and enabling to improve the tolerance to stress factors due to mechanisms as secretion of various phytohormones, vitamins and growth regulators, restriction of ethylene synthesis with ACC deaminase activity, decreasing of pathogen damage by the secret of antibiotic and fungicidal compounds. This study was carried out in a laboratory of Field crops in Siirt University under controlled conditions. The 2 original bacterial strains (KF3B and KF63C) and 5 different priming times (control, 1, 2, 4 and 6 h) were applied on the Fırat-87 lentil variety. The study was laid out in a completely randomized design with 3 replications. It was aimed with this study that investigating effects based on bacterial biodiversity and priming time on germination characteristics and seedling growth in lentils. According to results, biodiversity-induced differences were observed in germination percentage, seedling fresh weight, seedling dry weight, seedling length and seedling vigor index while priming time significantly affected all investigated parameters except for germination percentage. However, the interaction of strains and priming times did not lead to any significant differences in traits. In conclusion, microbial diversity and priming time have a critical role on successful of the priming technique. Optimum priming time for lentils was determined as 4 hours. Besides, the strain of KF63C had a noteworthy stimulative effect on especially seedling growth in the experiment.
Yazar isimleri: ['Murat ERMAN', 'Fatih ÇIĞ', 'Mustafa CERİTOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Bilecik Şeyh Edebali Üniversitesi Fen Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bseufbd/issue/70447/991736
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1959494
