Makale Başlığı: An Investigations of the Possibilities of Air-Based Protein as an Alternative Protein Source
Özet: Nowadays, the searches on sustainable resources and new alternatives in food industry have become a necessity rather than being a trend research topics. The limited natural resources used in food production and rapid population growth are the main reasons for this situation. At this point, researches on alternative protein source have become extremely important. If current consumption habits and population growth are continued, 110% more protein crops will be needed compared to 2005 to provide sufficient protein sources to the world population in 2050, according to the researches. Access to qualified protein and water resources in the future poses a question mark considering the fact that decrease in agricultural areas, global warming, and as a result of the harmful activities of humans to biodiversity. The single-cell protein (SCP) refers to dried cells of microorganism and also called as bioprotein, microbial protein, or biomass. SCP can be obtained by many different microorganisms such as fungi, yeasts, algae, and bacteria. Hydrogen oxidizing bacteria (HOB) come into prominence on SCP production by way of many advantages. Air-based protein (ABP) is an SCP obtained by growing, purifying, and drying of HOB in bioreactors. The obtained biomass is a source of lipids, carbohydrates, vitamins and minerals in addition to protein. All these reasons point out the potential of ABP as an alternative and sustainable protein source. In this study, besides reviewing of researches on SCP, HOB and ABP, it was aimed to shed light on the potential areas of the ABP usage.
Yazar isimleri: ['Elif ERDOĞAN', 'Orhan KAYA', 'Esra DERİN', 'Büşra ÇAKALOĞLU EBCİM']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Life Sciences and Biotechnology
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijlsb/issue/68678/1096533
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2345078
