Makale Başlığı: TRACES OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN THE CONTEXT OF THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN TECHNOLOGY AND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Özet: It is expected that artificial intelligence technology, which affects human life and businesses dramatically, will change both business life and organizations. For this reason, it is important to investigate the effects of artificial intelligence technology on the organization. Based on the literature dealing with the relationship between organizational structure and technology, the aim of this study is to first determine with which technology types and how the organizational structure is associated, and then to determine whether there is artificial intelligence technology among the determined types. In this direction, systematic literature review was used as a research method, as it provides the ability to summarize and critically analyze the findings related to the study subject, as well as to identify the missing areas and trends. Systematic literature review, it was conducted on the Web of Science Core Collection (Wos), Journal Storage (JSTOR) and Scopus databases within the scope of 8 inclusion criteria. In this context, 22 articles that fit the purpose of the study were analyzed among the 50 articles reached in the first stage. As a result of the analysis; it has been determined that information technologies come to the fore in research on technology-organizational structure. However, only one study has been reached that examines the relationship among artificial intelligence technologies and organizational structure, which is expected to become increasingly important and shape the future. However, in this study, the relationship between artificial intelligence and organizational structure is interpreted hypothetically based on the literature. In line with the results obtained, it is suggested that researches in the context of technology-organizational structure relationship should focus on artificial intelligence organizational structure.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gülizar ÖZÇELİK']
Yayın Yılı: 8 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Elektronik Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/esosder/issue/70796/1108743
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2395928
