Makale Başlığı: Teachers' Opinions on Teaching Primary Reading and Writing through Distance Education During the Covid-19 Pandemic Period
Özet: This study aimed to examine the positive and negative aspects of primary teaching reading and writing through distance education during the Covid-19 Pandemic period from the eyes of primary school 1st-grade teachers. The case study was determined as the method of the study. The participants were ten primary school teachers who teach 1st grades in a primary school located in one of the central districts of Mersin province. A semi-structured interview form was used to obtain data in line with the purpose of the study. The findings showed more negative aspects in teaching reading and writing with distance education. Among the negativities, the most mentioned issue by the participant teachers was the problematic writing of the students. In addition, they also highlighted the situations such as not being able to contact the students, indifference of the parents, not obeying the classroom rules such as unauthorized speaking and raising their hands. According to the opinions of the participants, it was stated that the use of distance education is not suitable for teaching reading and writing skills in general, and face-to-face education is needed for this. The problems encountered in this process are presented under four main headings. These are: "Problems originating from parents, technical problems, problems related to the learning-teaching process, and problems related to the learning environment". In order to overcome the problems faced by the teachers, Trying to involve parents more in the process has been the most used solution.
Yazar isimleri: ['Soner Mehmet ÖZDEMİR', 'Firdevs GÜNDOĞAN ÖNDERÖZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Teacher Education and Lifelong Learning
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tell/issue/70998/1123629
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2456931
