Makale Başlığı: Examining the Studies on Multiple Representations in Mathematics Education in Turkey
Özet: The multiple representation approach is an approach that significantly affects mathematics learning. In this study, it is aimed to analyze researches based on multiple representations in mathematics education with descriptive content analysis. In order to identify theses and articles included in the research, advanced screening was carried out using the determined keywords. Scientific researches included in the study as 45 postgraduate theses and 35 articles as a total of 80 studies between 2003-2022. The data collection tools used the “research classification form”, which was developed by the researchers and took its final form in line with the opinions of a specialist, was used as the data collection tool. Research; The year in which the research was conducted, the type of publication and the language of the publication, the level and number of samples, the preferred subject, the method and model used, the validity and reliability of the research, data collection tools, and data analysis methods were examined and classified. Research has increased since 2010, more studies have been done with middle and undergraduate students in the fields of numbers and algebra learning, where the qualitative research model is preferred more. Some studies had not mention the sampling method, validity and reliability processes. Lessons on research methods at undergraduate and graduate levels can be made more effective and based on learning in the discussion environment. However, research conducted in this area of research concerned that the limited study abroad in Turkey also proposed making the content analysis.
Yazar isimleri: ['Güliz TÜRER', 'Berna CANTÜRK GÜNHAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Fen Matematik Girişimcilik ve Teknoloji Eğitimi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/fmgted/issue/72834/1089907
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2318196
