Makale Başlığı: From a Clone’s Diary: Posthumanism, Transhumanism, Dystopia and 'Never Let Me Go'
Özet: The 2017 Nobel Prize in Literature recipient Kazuo Ishiguro's Never Let Me Go (2005) can be considered a novel of hope. For most readers, this will be a prominent view. However, it is possible to bring a different perspective to this novel. If we look at the novel Never Let Me Go in terms of science fiction, we will find a dystopian and posthumanist story that pushes the reader to question the place and future of humanity in the present world, as in Aldous Huxley’s Brave New World or Yevgeny Zamyatin’s We. Ishiguro, who was born in Nagasaki, Japan, and having experienced the effects of the atomic bomb disaster, is likely to predict that a perfect future is not in store for us. Today, we know that even if human cloning has not yet begun due to its illegal status, human beings continue to work for 'producing' artificial human organs by conducting experiments on animals within many respected universities worldwide. Significant advances in organ transplants are also being achieved, enabling humans to live longer. Thus, it can be assumed that human beings can be artificially produced in laboratories for organ transplantation purposes as though they are laboratory animals. Even though the novel, Never Let Me Go, seems like the expression of the ultimate desires of happiness for the future of two loving hearts, it may also be the ironic expression of consciousness that questions the limits of human desires and power by displaying the possible future change of universal human values and morality. This article aims to unearth the posthumanist traces of the Nobel Prize-winning author Ishiguro's Never Let Me Go in which a dystopian universe serves as the setting.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hacer GÖZEN', 'Timucin Bugra EDMAN', 'Arda ARIKAN', 'Ülfet DAĞ', 'Osman DÜLGER', 'Burcu GÜDÜCÜ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Hacettepe Üniversitesi Edebiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/huefd/issue/67946/707275
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1016387
