Makale Başlığı: EVALUATION OF GROUND CORN COB WITH VARIOUS GRAIN SIZES IN GYPSUM-BASED COMPOSITES
Özet: In this study, the use of corn cob, which is agricultural waste, in gypsum-based composites was investigated. Corn cobs were ground in 3 different grain sizes 5.6 mm, 4 mm, and 2 mm. Corn cobs were added to gypsum mixtures at 20%, 40% and 60% by volume. 40x40x160 mm prismatic samples were produced and unit weight, ultrasonic pulse velocity, water absorption, capillary water absorption, and apparent porosity tests were applied. 200x160x20 mm sized plates were produced and the thermal conductivity coefficients of the samples were measured. To evaluate the mechanical properties of the samples, compressive and bending strength tests were applied. The unit weights of the samples containing ground corn cobs were lower than the reference sample. Ultrasonic pulse velocity values were found to be lower. The use of corn cob increased the apparent porosity values. Accordingly, a decrease was observed in the thermal conductivity coefficients, while the water absorption and capillary water absorption values increased. The bending and compressive strength values decreased. Refining the grain size of the ground corn cob increased the apparent porosity values, the unit volume weight and ultrasonic pulse velocity values decreased. Similarly, the coefficient of thermal conductivity, bending and compressive strength also decreased. Water absorption and capillary water absorption values increased. Although the mechanical properties of the gypsum-based composites weaken somewhat, the fact that light-weight products with lower thermal conductivity coefficients can be obtained, it is thought that the produced material can be considered as an insulation purpose and a partition element.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mert Sinan TÜRK', 'Ahmet Hayrullah SEVİNÇ', 'Muhammed Yasin DURGUN', 'Yusuf URAS']
Yayın Yılı: 3 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kahramanmaraş Sütçü İmam Üniversitesi Mühendislik Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://jes.ksu.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/73671/1152749
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2571116
