Makale Başlığı: A group of Early Byzantine column capitals from the Hadrianopolis Ancient City
Özet: In this study, the Early Byzantine column capitals of Hadrianopolis Ancient City, is to explain the column capitals that revealed during excavations or were founded in and around the city. Column capital that founded around the city, has been the subject of some scientific puplications to present day. However, it hasn’t been adequately appreciated in terms of Byzantine Art and Byzantine Architecture. In addition, between 2017-2020, a large of column capital were discovered at the new excavation zones and they were not the subject of any puplications. In this study, which was prepared for the definition and classification of the column capitals discovered in the city borders of Hadrianopolis from the past to the present day, the columns capitals dated to the Early Byzantine Period were evaluated according to their stylistic and formal characteristics. Column capital of Hadrianoupolis can be categorized into three types; fluted, Impost and Ionic-Impost. All the columns capitals are local production and made of marble, granite and limestone. Any of column capitals that subject to the study haven’t been determined in situ. Although the columns capitals uncovered inside or around the buildings provide important clues about the history, architecture and ornamental features of buildings in which they are located. In this puplication, columns capitals that are particularly firm or partially firm are included. The restoration of Impost, volute, abacus, bracelet and calathos fragments, which were discovered during the excavations and are thought to belong to the column capitals, is still ongoing.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ercan VERİM']
Yayın Yılı: 2 Mayıs 2022
Dergi ismi: Süleyman Demirel Üniversitesi Fen-Edebiyat Fakültesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sufesosbil/issue/69783/1089519
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2316642
