Makale Başlığı: Geostatistical analysis and spatial distribution map of geochemical contents of the Susuzdag Formation limestones
Özet: Limestones, which are a type of carbonate rocks that are classified as karstification of rocks, are widely observed in the Antalya complex. The assessment of the elemental relationships in the formation of limestones by using statistical methods is important for the interpretation of paleoredox states in the environment and for understanding its diagenetic conditions. In the study, limestone samples collected from the Susuzdag Formation were analyzed by the XRF method to determine their chemical contents. Also, thin cross-sections of the limestone samples were prepared and the mineralogical properties of the formation were determined by performing detailed optical microscopy examinations. The order of the contents enriched during the formation of limestones is as follows: SiO2, MgO, Al2O3, K2O, TiO2 Fe2O3, SO3, Pb, Th, U, Sr, Mn, and Co. The high values of K2O, Al2O3 and SiO2 elements at the regional scale revealed the high clay presence in the limestones. In addition, high concentrations of Al2O3 and TiO2 interpreted from distribution maps in similar locations indicate the presence of minerals with aluminum oxide and titanium oxide. The cumulative value of chemical contents, which were observed to fall in 4 main groups, was calculated as 92.60%. The limestone samples were found to have micritic and sparitic textural features, and no foliation or lamination was observed in their thin crosssections. Moreover, according to the single-nicol images, the matrix fillings of the cross-sections of the samples were found to contain clay. It was thought that the limestones in the region underwent dehydration reactions during their formation and lost their water molecules and became enriched in kaolinite minerals.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Pamukkale Üniversitesi Mühendislik Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/pajes/issue/73579/1212435
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2804185
