Makale Başlığı: The Mediation Role of Transparency on the Effects of Hotel Employees’ Corporate Reputation Perceptions on Insider Status Perceptions
Özet: The purpose of this study is to reveal the role that the mediation role of transparency on the effects of employees’ corporate reputation perceptions on insider perceptions. The results are in line with previous findings in the literature, the relationship between concepts is emphasized by developing an integrated model. The universe of the study consists of employees who working in four and five-star hotels that operating in the Mediterranean region. It is difficult to make an exact count on the universe, therefore, the sampling method was used. Since the density of hotels in the region is in Antalya, the province was determined as the sampling frame. Data were collected by questionnaire technique from a sample of 308 employees selected by convenience sampling method were evaluated statistically. Hypotheses were tested through regression analyzes and structural equation modeling. The findings confirmed that corporate reputation perception significantly affects transparency perception and perceived insider status. Also, transparency perception positively influenced perceived insider status. In addition, the results showed that transparency perception has a full mediating role in the relationship between corporate reputation perception and perceived insider status. At the end of the study, the results of the findings were discussed, theoretical and practical contributions, and suggestions for future studies were presented. It is considered that the findings from the study will contribute to this field, especially as a limited number of studies have been conducted in terms of tourism literature.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gaye DENİZ']
Yayın Yılı: 16 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Turizm Akademik Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/touraj/issue/70329/1077033
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2267256
