Makale Başlığı: Working in the Tracing Team during the COVID-19 Pandemic Process
Özet: Aim: The present study was carried out to investigate what the healthcare professionals working in the tracing team experienced during the COVID-19 pandemic process.Materials and Methods: The research, designed in a qualitative pattern, was based on a phenomenological approach. Interviews were conducted with 13 healthcare professionals working in the tracing team, who was selected with the purposeful and maximum variation sampling method. In the research, a semi-structured questionnaire consisting of 9 questions prepared. The questionnaire was finalized by taking the opinions of four expert academicians. Consent was obtained from the participants for the use of a voice recorder during the interviews.Results: Considering the personal and professional status variables of the participants, it was determined that the mean age was 31.7 (27-43) years and the total working period in the institution was 8.8 (1-25) years. Research findings were analyzed under three main themes and nine sub-themes as follows: feelings (anxiety, fear, and happiness-pride), problems (lack of orientation, problems in working conditions, and communication with patients), and family (fear of infecting others, missing, and childcare issues). Conclusion: These results emphasize the importance for health services of evaluating the feelings and problems experienced by the tracing teams working on the front lines during the COVID-19 pandemic process. It is important that managers take effective steps in order to carry out orientation activities for healthcare professionals who have just started to work in this field, to improve the working conditions of the tracing teams, and to provide support to the employees.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ebru ÖZEN BEKAR', 'İbrahim KAVASLAR']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Sağlık Bilimlerinde Değer
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sabd/issue/72485/1074941
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2258969
