Makale Başlığı: Yozgat High School from First Constitutional Era to Today
Özet: The subject of this study is the high school building constructed in Yozgat as a result of the modernization of education in Ottoman Empire. In the scope of the movement of renewal of education initiated by Sultan Mahmud II, 1869 Regulation of Public Education was issued. The regulation constitutes the theoretical side of the change in education system This staging starts to spread nationwide. New school buildings are constructed as the regulation applied, and construction commissions are established by the sanjak governments. These commissions send reconnaissance books to the center on bought lands and required expenses. In these books required expenses are given in detail. Similar procedures are applied for the construction of Yozgat High School. The construction started in 1895 under the name of îdâdi, a step in middle education. However, building could not be completed during the reign of Abdülhamid II (r.1876-1909) because of financial inadequacies. Because of the long construction process, the building could not be built with a single hand and it can be seen that the completed building has differences in facade and plan than it was planned in Abdülhamid era. It is known that this building was first used as a middle school after 1924 The Law of Unification in Education, then as a high school after 1933-34 years of education. This study focuses on the planned form of the building, how this form was changed during the construction, which repairs were made, how it can be compared to its contemporaries, and artistic and style characteristics. Architectural aspects of Yozgat High School are discussed in detail and incorporated into scientific literature.
Yazar isimleri: ['Rahşan TOPTAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Bozok Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bozifder/issue/70894/1080870
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2281987
