Makale Başlığı: INSTITUTIONALITY IN ELECTROACUSTIC MUSIC: THE EXAMPLE OF MIAM
Özet: AbstractElectronic music and electroacoustic music studies in Turkey have been included in the contents of the academic media, mainly by music technologies and music sciences units. These studies in the context of research, examination and performance are carried out within the body of various universities. Established in 1999, the Center for Advanced Studies in Music (MIAM), affiliated to Istanbul Technical University, which provides graduate education and continues its activities as a research center, besides its experience of being a well-established technical university, has both academic staff, music library, laboratory and With its studio facilities, it is an extremely important institution on music research in our country. There are thesis and non-thesis master's and doctoral programs all in English at the center. 20th century In this study, the reflections of electronic music, which is known to have emerged as of today, and electroacoustic music, which can be considered as a sub-genre as a result of opening different horizons, in our country, and its studies in the context of corporate example and institutionalism were examined. As it is known, electroacoustic music, in which both electronic and acoustic source sounds are taken as material, showed itself in parallel with the development of technology in the world and gained its current form especially with the possibilities of recording technology. Historical anecdotes and periodic sections are presented in the process of evolution from magnetic tape recording to today's computer environment, for music in which the recording mediums have changed so that the intellectual and action purposes remain the same. The idea of using signal generators in service for physics laboratories and imaging technologies to generate and process sound is combined with recordable sounds. In this way, a brand new door to a vast universe has been discovered. More importantly, when it was understood that this music included different composing approaches, it was understood that it brought innovations that will touch many aspects of music. After the Second World War, after 1950, which is described as the early period of electronic music, it has been examined how the works that started first in France, then in Germany and America, have repercussions in our country and what kind of initiatives individuals or institutions made in this sense. Although electroacoustic music was heard very late in our country, high institutional standards were attempted. The fact that the first step in institutionalization is “education” is extremely important as it reminds the vision that is likely to spread all over the country when considering the duties that graduates will take in new schools. In this study, I evaluate what kind of field electroacoustic music takes place in ITU MİAM, what kind of studies are carried out, in the context of institutionalism, based on my observations during my undergraduate education. In this study, I evaluate what kind of field electroacoustic music takes place in ITU MİAM, what kind of studies are carried out, in the context of institutionalism, based on my observations during my undergraduate education.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hüseyin YÜCEBAĞ']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Balkan Müzik ve Sanat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bmsd/issue/73685/1096557
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2345161
