Makale Başlığı: The Effectiveness of Teaching with the Simultaneous Prompting Offered by Maternal Teaching in the Acquisition of Independent Movement Skills of Preschool Children with Visual Impairment
Özet: In the study, it was aimed to determine the effectiveness of teaching with the simultaneous hint offered by maternal teaching in the acquisition of ındependent movement skills of preschool children with visual impairment. For this purpose, the probe-phased multiple probe model was preferred as a research model. The research was carried out with two visually impaired preschool children and their mothers. The mothers included in the study were selected among individuals who had not systematically taught a skill before and had not received instruction on the simultaneous prompting method. The study's teaching, probing and monitoring sessions were held in the children's homes. The researcher taught the necessary skills and methods to mothers by establishing an online connection at appropriate time intervals. In line with the data obtained from the mothers of the subjects participating in the research; the research revealed that teaching with simultaneous prompting method by mothers was effective in teaching walking skills with high arm protection technique, walking by hand following the wall, and walking skills with low arm protection technique. In the study, it was concluded that the children continued the independent movement skills in the study with the simultaneous prompting method on the 7th, 14th, and 21st days after the mothers' practice sessions. The generalization results show that the children could generalize the independent movement skills they learned to different environments (different rooms, gardens, and streets). Considering the study's results, it has been suggested that applied studies on teaching different independent movement skills with simultaneous prompting methods can be carried out online.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatma POLAT', 'Banu ALTUNAY']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Gazi Eğitim Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gebd/issue/73565/1067246
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2228944
