Makale Başlığı: Factors Affecting Consumers' Local Honey Payment Demands in Turkey: A Cross Section Study in TRB1 Region
Özet: This study was carried out to reveal the profile of honey consumers in TRB1 Region and to determine the willingness of consumers to pay additional payments. The source of the study is the primary data. The scope of the fieldwork for Local Honey Payment Willingness was determined as honey consumers in the city centers of TRB1 Region (Bingöl, Elazığ, Malatya and Tunceli). Data were obtained from these individuals through a questionnaire and face-to-face technique. In the survey, 6 different scenarios were presented to honey consumers and the characteristics of the honey they wanted to buy and their willingness to pay additionally were determined. The sample size of this study was determined by the "Unclustered Single Stage Random Probability Sampling Based on Population Ratios" method and was studied with 393 questionnaires. Cluster and factor analyzes were used in the study. In the cluster analysis, consumers are divided into clusters according to their income. Accordingly, 51.91% (204 consumers) of the consumers are in the low-income group, 36.38% (143 consumers) are in the middle-income group and 11.71% (46 consumers) are in the high-income group. According to the factor analysis results, which is one of the multivariate analysis techniques, the variables that affect the willingness to pay extra for honey were collected in 6 factors and it was determined that the sum of these six factors explained 63.90% of the total variance. When the outputs of the study were examined, it was determined that consumers generally expressed their desire for natural and organic honey. They stated that in 2 of the 6 scenarios presented to consumers, consumers prefer local natural honey and especially Bingöl honey. In the other three scenarios, consumers stated that they can prefer honey from any region of Turkey, provided that it is natural organic. It can be said that the education levels of consumers who want natural and organic honey increase in parallel with their income levels.
Yazar isimleri: ['Halim TATLI', 'Beşir KOÇ', 'Doğan BARAK']
Yayın Yılı: 13 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Uludağ Arıcılık Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/uluaricilik/issue/73408/1088402
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2311907
