Makale Başlığı: Multi-Hazard Analysis in  Disaster Risk Assessments ‘Case of Erciş, Van’
Özet: Urban areas are becoming risk areas for occupants  with each passing day. Particularly in the last period as a result of global climate change, threatening the world, In cities, Disasters caused by nature or human induced are happened frequently. Many different concepts and approaches have been developed to find  solutions to disasters in the city and to make cities more livable.the purpose of these concepts and approaches against increasing disasters  improve  the dealing with capacity of cities. Some of those; disaster resilience, urban resilience, cities that are resilience to climate change etc.The aim of this study; for the Erciş district of Van province ,which has a high disaster risk created by nature - human influence, develop proposals  by making multiple hazard analysis to identificate risky areas in terms of disasters and ensure urban resilience against these hazards  under related protection   and planning tools. By taking into account the data obtained in the study area, the hazards experienced and likely to occur in the area have been determined. These hazards are mapped and areas with high disaster risk in terms of all hazards have been determined. In the study, multi criteria decision making method was used. All analyzes with in the scope of the study were made in the GIS environment.As a result  it is quite important for Ercis with high disaster potential to reduce disaster damage  and raise awareness on this issue of those residing in the area. The north and northeast of Ercis have been identified as high disaster risk. Zilan stream and its surroundings and the shore of Lake Van in the south are identified as high disaster risk. In areas with high disaster risk taking precautions against disaster is very important in reducing the impact of disasters. Especially those residing in the area it is very important in reducing the impact of disasters  by raising awareness of dangers and risks. Also areas with high disaster risk has to be identified as priority disaster response areas and these need to be included in spatial plan decisions. Areas with high disaster risk as priority areas of intervention are necessary for resilience to disasters to be included in the 1/25000 scale environmental plan. The inclusion of areas with high disaster risk, especially at local scales in 1/5000 scale master development plans and 1/1000 scale implementation development plans is an important issue in terms of creating guideliness and planning codes to ensure resilience.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşe DEMİR', 'Serkan KEMEÇ', 'Figen DİLEK İLKE']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Resilience
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/resilience/issue/68460/1013912
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2043095
