Makale Başlığı: Öğretmen Adaylarının İletişim Becerilerinin Farklı Değişkenler Açısından İncelenmesi
Özet: We can call communication the process of mutual understanding and making sense of each other. Communication is one of the effective and indispensable tools that we use at all stages of our lives. It is stated that the concept of communication as a process is based on very old processes in the existence of people's lives. It is very important to make sense of the communication process on a regular basis. The better we open ourselves in this process, the stronger our communication with people will be. Today, the most important factor that determines the success in institutions and provides unity in society is communication. At every stage of daily life, teachers are in constant interaction with the society. In this sense, teachers need to have good communication skills in order to be able to fully deal with people, to direct and influence them. This research is a descriptive study to examine the communication skills of teacher candidates. The research population consists of prospective teachers studying in different departments of Gaziantep University in the 2019-2020 academic year, and the sample group consists of 505 individuals (264 Female, 241 Male) selected on a voluntary basis. “Communication Skills Evaluation Scale (IAS)” developed by Korkut (1996) was used as a data collection tool in the study. SPSS 22.0 program was used in the analysis of the data. T test and analysis of variance were used as statistical methods. It was determined that the data showed normal distribution, Independent Sample t test was used for comparison of paired groups and OneWay ANOVA analysis was used for comparison of multiple groups. The significance level was taken as p<0.05. As a result of the research, it was seen that the communication skills of the teacher candidates can be evaluated positively in general. It was observed that the communication skills of the Turkish and Mathematics teacher candidates increased when their age increased. While male teacher candidates have more positive communication skills, female mathematics teacher candidates have more positive communication skills. In Turkish teacher candidates, the communication skills of the first-year teacher candidates were lower than the second, third and fourth-year teacher candidates, the scores of the fourth-year students in the mathematics teacher candidates were higher than the first, second and third-year students, physical education, It was concluded that there was no difference in terms of grade level, social studies, and psychological counselor and guidance teacher candidates in terms of grade level.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ökkeş BEYAZ', 'Fikret ALINCAK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Eğitim ve Yeni Yaklaşımlar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jena/issue/70494/1117507
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2431359
