Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of Platelet Count and Platelet Indices in Cats and Dogs Diagnosed with Lymphoma
Özet: In this study, it was aimed to evaluate the platelet count and platelet indices in cats and dogs diagnosed with lymphoma. Lymphoma, a malignant tumor that is very common in cats and dogs, is more common in middle-aged and older cats and dogs. For diagnostic purposes, complete blood count, serum biochemistry profile, urine analysis and some biomarkers as well as ultrasonography, radiography and advanced imaging techniques are used. Non-regenerative anemia, thrombocytopenia and leukocyte variability can be encountered in the complete blood count of cats and dogs with lymphoma. In recent years, the reflections of platelet indices on different diseases have been the subject of new studies in the fields of human medicine and veterinary medicine. In this direction, 13 cats with lymphoma, 20 healthy cats, 33 dogs with lymphoma and 20 healthy dogs were included in the study, which was conducted to examine PLT (Thrombocyte),  MPV (Mean platelet volume-fl), PDW (Platelet distribution width) and PCT (Thrombocytocrit-%) of cats and dogs with lymphoma. The lymphoma diagnosis of the patients was confirmed by cytological and histopathological examinations. According to the statistical evaluations obtained from the hemogram data, it was determined that the RBC (Red blood cell-m/mm3), HGB (Hemoglobin-g/dL), HCT (Hematocrit-%) and MCHC (Mean platelet volume-fl) values were significantly lower (P≤0.01) and the MPV value was higher (P<0.05) in sick cats compared to healthy cats. It was determined that RBC, HGB, HCT values were lower (P<0.05), WBC (P≤0.01) and PDW (P<0.05) values were higher in sick dogs compared to healthy dogs. In this study conducted on cats and dogs with lymphoma, it is thought that changes in some of the platelet indices may be significant for treatment management and prognosis. It has been concluded that further studies on the subject will contribute to the field of veterinary medicine.Keywords: Lymphoma, platelet, platelet indices, thrombocytopenia
Yazar isimleri: ['Emine Merve ALAN', 'Özge ERDOĞAN BAMAÇ', 'Lora KOENHEMSİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Kocatepe Veteriner Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kvj/issue/71175/1133202
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2496625
