Makale Başlığı: Biosynthesis and Characterization of Co3O4NPs Utilizing Prickly Pear Fruit Extract and its Biological Activities
Özet: In the current research, there is a low level of research and information about the interaction of cobalt oxide nanoparticles (Co3O4NPs) in biological systems. This research creates a very simple and cost-effective preparation of cobalt oxide nanoparticles by using prickly pear fruit extract as a reducing agent, which may be further used for biological applications like antimicrobial, antioxidant, DNA interaction and in-vitro anticancer activity. The use of prickly pear fruit extract acts as a good reducing agent and is responsible for easy preparation and reducing the toxicity of cobalt oxide nanoparticles. The fabricated biogenic nanoparticles were confirmed by microscopic and spectroscopic analytical techniques like Ultra Violet-Visible spectrometer, Fourier transforms infrared spectrometer (FTIR), X-ray Diffraction Method (XRD), Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS), Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and Transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The average size of the synthesized nanoparticles is 36.24 nm. In the MTT assay, the prepared cobalt oxide NPs haspotential mechanisms of cytotoxicity and in-vitro anticancer activity in Hepatocellular carcinoma cancer cells (HepG2). The microbial activities like antibacterial and antifungal studies of the biosynthesized nanoparticles were performed by the Disc method. The Co3O4NPs with DNA interaction were examined by UV-Visible and fluorescence spectroscopic methods. The binding constant value of biogenic Co3O4NPs with CT-DNA was observed by UV-Visible spectroscopy with a result of 2.57x105mol-1. The binding parameters and quenching constants were observed by fluorescence spectroscopic methods having values of Ksv=7.1x103, kq=7.1x108, Ka=3.47.1x105, n=0.9119. From the findings, Co3O4NPs may be utilized as a medicinal aid for their antibacterial, antifungal, antioxidant, DNA binding and in-vitro anticancer activities.
Yazar isimleri: ['J MAHESWARİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of the Turkish Chemical Society Section A: Chemistry
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jotcsa/issue/72258/993633
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1967415
