Makale Başlığı: Reality of climatic geomorphology in Turkey
Özet: The concept of Climatic Geomorphology, which was first used by de Martonne in 1913, hasbeen adopted in many countries since the beginning of the 20th century and numerous studieshave been carried out on the subject by many people. Emphasizing the importance of climatein the formation, development and distribution of landforms, this approach was initiallyshaped around the ideas and studies of W.M.Davis. In this period, researchers have been tryingto divide the earth into morphogenetic regions. The approach gained its highest momentumbetween the years 1950-1980. Today, this approach shows itself mostly in applied geomorphology/climatology studies and studies on global climate change. Climatic geomorphologyentered the Turkish academic community late and did not receive much attention. The climaticgeomorphology approach was first introduced to the Turkish literature in 1984 with KlimaGeomorphology, translated from Herbert Wilhelmy by Dayan (1984), and then with Erol’s(1192) Climageomorphology work in 1992. However, due to the lack of interest in this subjectin Turkey, studies have remained limited. Within the scope of this research, various availabledata (reports, articles, books, dictionaries, journals, encyclopedias and maps) were examinedone by one and a wide-ranging survey was conducted. The relevant parts of the foreign sources,which constitute an important part of the study, were translated into Turkish, a case studyemphasizing the importance of the subject was made, the research problem was developed,and the framework to be studied was determined. Thus, it is aimed to re-introduce climaticgeomorphology to the literature of our country, to emphasize its importance once again, andto give an impetus to Turkish geomorphologists and those who are in terested in the subject.
Yazar isimleri: ['Merve ERTAN', 'Tevfik ERKAL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Coğrafya Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tcd/issue/69891/1045542
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2155099
