Makale Başlığı: Comparative Toxicity of Paraquat and 2, 4-Dichlorophenoxy Acetic Acid in Adult Artemia franciscana
Özet: Herbicides are being used widely in agriculture and aquaculture for controlling noxious weeds. Paraquat and 2, 4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) have been the most widely used herbicide during the past three decades. Toxicological properties of Paraquat are attributed to its ability to produce reactive oxygen species such as superoxide anion that may directly or indirectly cause cell death. 2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) is a broad-leaf, systemic, phenoxy herbicide used as the active ingredient in several commercially available aquatic herbicide products. Bioassay technique has been the cornerstone of programs on environmental health and chemical safety. The application of environmental toxicology studies on non-mammalian vertebrates is rapidly expanding. So the present study investigated the acute toxicity of Paraquat and 2,4- Dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4-D) as aquatic ecosystems pollutants on Artemia franciscana. Artemia is one of the most suitable test organisms available for ecotoxicity testing and research and most commonly used live food in aquaculture. Acute toxicity (48 h LC50) of two herbicides (Paraquat, 2, 4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid) was determined.  A. franciscana exposed to Serial concentrations of both mentioned herbicides. Mortalities at 12, 24, 36 and 48 hours after exposure were recorded and LC50 were calculated using Probit software. The results obtained indicate that the acute toxicity of these herbicides is significantly different in adult A. franciscana. The lethal concentration of Paraquat and 2,4-D were calculated 2.701, 14.475 mg/L in A. fransiscana respectively. So The LC50 of two examined herbicides was significantly different and the mortality rate was increased by increasing exposure time. Finally, these data support the hypothesis the possible risks associated with the presence of herbicides particularly Paraquat residues in the aquatic animals and their environment.     
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 22 Aralık 2018
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Veterinary and Animal Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijvar/issue/41441/500874
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/603549
