Makale Başlığı: Unemployment among cancer patients during COVID-19 pandemic
Özet: Aim: The survival rate of cancer patients is increased which resulted in an increased number of cancer survivors in working life. Return to work of cancer patients resulted in improved health outcomes and quality of life. However, cancer survivors have a high risk of unemployment. The COVID-19 pandemic caused global economic distress and put a great burden on the healthcare system which affected the cancer survivors further. COVID-19 may be a concurrent risk along with cancer, as a barrier for return to work. We investigated the factors that are associated with unemployment among cancer survivors, during the COVID-19 pandemic. Thus, we aimed to detect risk factors for unemployment amongst cancer patients during the COVID-19 pandemic. Therefore, we aimed to maintain the employment status of cancer survivors and prevent undesired individual and global economic and health outcomes.Material and Method: This is a cross-sectional, descriptive study. Control patients who applied to the Medical Oncology outpatient clinic were over 18 years old, diagnosed with cancer, completed adjuvant chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy treatment, the disease has not relapsed, and working before March 2020 were included in the study. The survey collection process for the study was carried out between July 2020 and November 2020.Results: There were 146 participants (65 male (44,5%) and 81 female (%55,5)).  42 (28.8%) of the 146 participants stated that they quit their jobs during the pandemic. Being a government employee, having a good-high household income and a high degree of education was protective against losing their jobs.Conclusion: It is very important to understand the causes of unemployment among cancer survivors and solve these issues in order to increase the well-being, quality of life, and survival of the patient, as well as improve the economic and social status of society.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Erdem ALAGÜNEY', 'Fatih YILDIZ']
Yayın Yılı: 22 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Anatolian Current Medical Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/acmj/issue/73102/1168942
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2624136
