Makale Başlığı: A Deweyan Approach to Religious and Moral Education
Özet: John Dewey, one of the pioneering philosophers of pragmatism, in his philosophy, generally tries to offer solutions to the problems faced by humankind. In these solutions, it is seen that he is against dualism, and attaches importance to the harmony of the humans with their environment and is centered on the human experience. These basic features of his philosophy come to the fore in his ideas about religion and morality, especially his philosophy of education. Dewey's educational philosophy has a progressive character based on experience. Although there are many studies in the literature on Dewey's philosophy of education, no secondary work has been found that reveals his approach to religious and moral education. The purpose of this article, therefore, is to reveal Dewey's approach to religious and moral education based on his works. Depending on this purpose, the question of this research is determined as follows: According to Dewey, how should religious and moral education be?Considering Dewey's understanding of religion, in his thought, religion can be seen as a dogmatic field due to its special claims of truth, but also as a field of possibilities due to the clarity it offers to human. In this context, it is understood that Dewey, while criticizing institutionalized religions, accepts religion as a natural tendency and a private area of human. Therefore, it can be said that Dewey does not approve of the scientific and formal teaching of religion in schools. The reasons for this can be listed as follows: 1. Dewey finds it contrary to the nature of religion to be handled with an evidence-based scientific method in schools. 2. The problem of deciding on which religion to teach in multicultural societies. 3. According to him, even if it is decided to choose more than one religion to teach in schools, truth claims of religions may harm social cohesion. As is seen, although being the distant approach to formal religious education, Dewey is not against children and young people receiving religious education in general. His idea is understood from his statement that interdisciplinary cooperation is required for children and young people to receive a religious education appropriate for their development.When Dewey's understanding of morality is researched, it is seen that there is no abstract universal principle that guides moral action in his thought. For him, there is uncertainty and conflict in the nature of moral action. The reason for this is that while taking a moral action, influences from many different sources are intertwined. During a moral action, one has to consider many aspects such as taking into account individual and social goals, observing rights and responsibilities, calculating the consequences of the action, and subjecting moral principles to verification in experience. In these processes, reason, and experience cooperate. An experience in which the mind is active is a guide to moral life. The moral understanding of Dewey is also reflected in his view on moral education. For him, it is not right to try to teach moral principles in an abstract way by ignoring human nature and experiences in schools. Because abstract moral knowledge does not make a person good and characterful, but a person can achieve goodness through his experiences. Therefore, in the moral education in schools, it should be paying attention that this education is suitable for human nature, experiences, and social life.Considering Dewey's approach to religious and moral education together, it is seen that there are similarities in some points and differences in others. As similar points, it can be said that Dewey avoids dualism as much as possible in his approach to both issues, attaches importance to the individual and social harmony of people, and advocates an experience-based education. In addition, he thinks that teaching people theoretical knowledge about both religion and morality will not make them more religious or better. Instead of this, he proposes a religious and moral education suitable for human nature and experiences. Coming to the differences, Dewey favors a moral education which takes into account the nature and experiences of human beings and intertwines with a whole education in schools but does not accept the teaching of religion in schools.Finally, in this study, Dewey's written works on the subject were researched through document analysis, one of the qualitative research methods, and the collected data were interpreted with content analysis.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hatice FAKİOĞLU BAĞCI']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Hitit İlahiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/hid/issue/70613/1073968
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2255127
