Makale Başlığı: Investigating the Relationship between Quality of Life and Adherence to Physical Activity with Life Expectancy at Leisure time in the Elderly
Özet: This study was conducted to determine the relationship between quality of life and adherence to physical activity and their impact on life expectancy in the elderly of Mashhad who spends their leisure time exercising and physical activity in the parks of this city. The research method was descriptive-correlational, and the investigation was carried out as a field study. The statistical population of the study consisted of 565 individuals who do exercise and physical activity in public parks of Mashhad city in 2021. Quality of Life scale (QLS, SF26), Adult Life Expectancy Scale ((ALES), Snyder et al., 1991), and Adherence to Physical Activity Scale ((APAS) Derakhshanpour et al., 2016), were used as data collection tools in this research. The results showed that there was almost moderate to strong positive correlation between quality of life with life expectancy, factor thinking and strategic thinking. There was also a moderate negative correlation between physical problems dimension with life expectancy and strategic thinking, but there isn't any correlation between physical problems with factor thinking. Also, there was moderate correlation between psychological and social dimensions with life expectancy, factor thinking and strategic thinking. Also, it has been seen that there was strong positive correlation between adherence to physical activity with life expectancy, factor thinking and strategic thinking. There was also strong positive correlation between awareness and equipment with life expectancy, factor thinking and strategic thinking. And, there was moderate correlation between reinforcement with life expectancy, factor thinking and strategic thinking. According to the results of the present study, increasing adherence to physical activity can lead to improving the life expectancy of the elderly, ultimately providing a good quality of life for them.  
Yazar isimleri: ['Amin AZİMKHANİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Avrasya Spor Bilimleri ve Eğitim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ejsse/issue/70177/1108793
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2396151
