Makale Başlığı: The Masnavi of Ibn Hayr as an Example of a Religious Content Work
Özet: There are all kinds of subjects in the works of classical Turkish literature tradition. However, among these genres, there are many religious works. In these works, there are answers to the questions of how people will apply the doctrines, obligations, and beliefs of the religion they accept. The lives, lifestyles, and reactions of people who previously lived and stood out in this religion have become a subject of curiosity. Since people find answers to these questions in these works, they have always aroused more interest. In addition to moral doctrines and advice, it is not very common to write these works starting from the existence of human beings. Ibn Hayr, who has not been studied previously, is an artist who created his works in this direction. There are five masnavis, all of which belong to Ibn Hayr, in a manuscript with the quality of a journal. No study has been conducted on this writing to date, and there is no information about the poet's life in the sources. These five masnavis can be considered independent masnavis in terms of their titles and subjects. The last masnavi among these five masnavis was recorded without a title. The author of the work used İbn Hayr as a pseudonym in his fifth work. It is observed that the author used pseudonyms such as Hayroğlu, Hayrun oğlu (the son of Hayrun), and Ibn Hayr in his other masnavis.It is seen that the masnavi has the characteristics of old Anatolian Turkish due to the language features used. Subjects such as the introduction of masnavi, language and expression features, copy features, number of couplets, and the content will be discussed in this study. The subject of the fifth masnavi in the last part of the writing is about the purpose of the creation of human beings, their duties in the world, and the preparations they should make for their eternal life. This study aimed to introduce the fifth masnavi, which consists of a total of 2074 couplets and has not been studied to date. An analysis was made based on the author's views and thoughts on human creation in the masnavi. In this sense, the introduction of the current masnavi and the examination of a masnavi from it will contribute to the literature in terms of both examining the subject and introducing the masnavi. In his work written with aruz prosody, the author explained the things that people should do for the religion of Islam as well as moral doctrines. The author focused on the rewards people will receive when these things are done or the punishments they will face when they do not do such things. He explained the duties of a Muslim. The author especially wrote about salah (prayer) in detail. They are studies aiming to increase Islamic belief in society. Using the verses and hadiths in his work, the poet made the subject he wanted to explain more concrete and ensured that it gained quality. Concerning the subject that he wanted to exemplify, the author gave examples from the lives of Islamic elders and told parables. He wrote throughout the work that the main purpose of human beings and the purpose of coming into the world is to know and serve Allah. The poet instilled the awareness that people living for this purpose are true servants. It is also known that a person living with this consciousness will have the attribute of being the highest of created beings. It is the feature that distinguishes humans from other created beings. The fact that a person knows this responsibility and is aware of every moment will have positive effects on his life and will lead the society he lives into peace. Thus, people will have a life in which they will live happily in both worlds.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nilay KINAY']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Şırnak Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sirnakifd/issue/72071/1176833
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2657079
