Makale Başlığı: Explaining The Reasons Why The Musnad And Musnad ilayhi Appear in Different Forms in Sentences Through The Examples Taken from The Verses of The Qur'an.
Özet: People communicate by forming sentences. Noun and verb that is a subject and a predicate are a must in these sentences. These elements, which are named as musnad and musnad ilayh in Arabic, are the core of the sentence. So, no sentence can be formed without them. Since the Qur'an is the word that Allah communicates with people, sentences in it are formed with these basic elements. There are changes in meaning according to the way the subject and predicate are formed in Turkish. The same is also true for Arabic as various meanings are formed according to the way the musnad and musnad ilayh come. The Qur'an conveyed its message to its addressee by using all kinds of rhetoric methods in different verses, as well as the types of usage of musnad and musnad ilayhin in order to persuade people on any subject. In Turkish the sentence "Sen kimsin?” reveals that we do not know our interlocutor while “Kimsin sen?” underestimates our interlocutor. When we say “O öğretmendir.” we emphasize the profession of the person we are pointing to. However, when we say “Öğretmendir o!” we show the greatness of the rank of the person we point to. Although these issues have been mentioned in tafsir and linguistics books, a study that combines both disciplines and deals with the same subject has not been found. Such a study has been carried out to fill in this gap. This study, first, explains how musnad and musnad ilayh are understood by linguists. Then, how the commentators examine these rules while interpreting the verses was presented. The subject has been completed by making explanations where necessary. In Arabic, various changes occur in the meanings of musnad and musnad ilayhin, thanks to the nahw and rhetoric rules such as marife, nekra, introduction, tehir, hazf, fasl. When we consider these changes, the meaning and emphasis in the verse emerges more vividly. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet KAHRAMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: UMDE Dini Tetkikler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/umde/issue/71265/1063264
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2213932
