Makale Başlığı: DEFENSE OF OUTDOOR WEDDINGS FROM THE COLLECTIVE CULTURAL RIGHTS PERSPECTIVE
Özet: Traditions and customs are a very important element of culture. Weddings, on the other hand, are one of the oldest ceremonies of traditions and customs. Weddings have a very important role in transferring verbal and visual cultural elements such as music, local games, clothes, jewelry, food from generation to generation, but also, they have been decisive in the formation of the feeling of “us” in social life with its many social and economic elements. Although it varied according to each region with its enormous cultural richness in Anatolia and Thrace, their common denominator was that it was carried out outdoors, with a common effort and collective happiness that spanned days.  However, weddings have undergone a significant change and transformation in the last 70 years. They shifted from outdoors to indoor spaces, moved further away from their collective reality every day. Because of that, they gradually lost their functions mentioned above. In today’s urban life, weddings and the elements of these weddings such as engagement, henna, and daughter-in-law, that are still held outdoors have been known not any more with the carriers of culture but with the characteristics of disrupting social peace and order with its many consequences from noise to murder.This study is based on the thesis that the current international human rights concept and the national law shaped within this framework are two important factors in this change and transformation of weddings. In the article, this thesis has been put forward with its reasons within the framework of international human rights law and national law.In the study, first, the relationship of weddings with traditions and culture will be briefly mentioned, and then the change and transformation in this 70-year period will be summarized. After this section, the reason why weddings have turned from a collective cultural right into an element that disrupts the social order and peace is explained based on human rights law in the international and domestic legal systems.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Dicle Üniversitesi Hukuk Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/duhfd/issue/72217/1163691
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2603174
