Makale Başlığı: A Study on Demographic Characteristics, Job Satisfaction and Organizational Commitment of Opticians
Özet:           The concepts of organizational commitment and job satisfaction have been previously studied in different sectors for quite a long time. However, limited to our literature search, we couldn’t find other research on this subject in the optical sector. For this purpose, the demographic characteristics of optical sector employees, and their relationship to organizational commitment and job satisfaction were examined in this study. The population of the research was determined as 8557 optician employees registered to the Turkish Opticians Association, according to the data of 2021 in Turkey. The sample consists of 320 opticians, responsible managers, and other personnel working in opticianry who participated voluntarily in the study. A total of 52 questions were constructed in the questionnaire using "Demographic Characteristics": "Allen Meyer Organizational Commitment Scale" and "Minnesota Job Satisfaction Scale" as data collection tools. An online questionnaire was used as a data collection method in the study. A survey link was sent to 22 chamber managers registered in the Turkish Opticians Union via e-mail, and the survey link was sent to their members by message method. In addition, it was shared on sectoral pages on all social media. Due to the fact that it was based on volunteerism, 320 employees returned to the survey. Data is analyzed with SPSS v 23.0. Mann Whitney U test and the Kruskal Wallis H test were applied for the comparisons of the study groups that did not comply with the normal distribution.          As a result of the research, it was observed that the sum of organizational commitment, affective commitment, continuance commitment, and normative commitment were at average values. There is a statistically significant positive correlation between all values of organizational commitment and all values of job satisfaction. The average total job satisfaction score was moderate and internal satisfaction was found to be high in the averages of the sub-factors. A significant relationship was found between demographic factors such as gender, age, marital status, education, title, income levels, working time in the profession, and job satisfaction and organizational commitment.
Yazar isimleri: ['Evrim ZEYTÜNLÜ DEMİRBAŞ', 'Ali ÖZCAN', 'Ahmet ERKASAP', 'Gözde MERT']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of  Health Systems and Policies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jhesp/issue/71070/1131875
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2491142
