Makale Başlığı: Life Cycle Assessment in Hotel Furniture Designs: Example of Antalya
Özet: Mass production and material technology developed with the industrial revolution have reshaped many industrial products. Mass production and material technology have brought environmental problems. One of the areas where environmental problems have been observed has been the furniture sector. As a result, it is easy and cheap to manufacture; Furniture designs and productions have started to be made, which has a negative impact on the environment. In 5-star hotels where luxury consumption is the most in the tourism sector, the environmental impact of standard room furniture is quite high due to their high number and change in short time intervals. Therefore, these furniture designs are sustainable; It is of great importance for the future of the tourism industry and its natural beauty. However, how much the furniture used affects the environment is a matter of discussion. In this study in Turkey tourism city of Antalya province over the sustainability of the furniture used in the design of standard hotel rooms it was investigated. The standard room furniture of the determined 15 hotels were determined by photographing and measurements made on site. Ccalc program was used in the evaluation of the furniture that was determined. With the help of the Ccalc program, which examines the environmental effects of materials in the life cycle, the findings of the environmental effects of the raw materials and production phases within the life cycle have been analyzed for each furniture. As a result, the environmental effects of hotel standard room furniture designs in terms of carbon footprint in their life cycles were revealed through the hotels in Antalya region; the magnitude of the negative effects of the furniture used in the hotels on the environment within the life cycle has been determined in terms of carbon footprint.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Mühendislik Tasarım ve Teknoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijedt/issue/69454/1104795
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2379515
