Makale Başlığı: EVALUATION OF GLASS MICROSPHERES IN GYPSUM-BASED MIXTURES
Özet: In this study, the effects of glass microspheres on the engineering properties of gypsum-based mixtures were investigated. In this context, glass microspheres were used at the rate of 10%, 20%, and 30% by weight instead of gypsum. By producing 40x40x160 mm prismatic samples, the hardened unit weight, ultrasonic pulse velocity, water absorption, capillary water absorption, and apparent porosity values of the produced samples were measured. At the same time, the thermal conductivity coefficients of the gypsum-based mixtures were measured by producing samples with dimensions of 140x160x20 mm. Within the scope of mechanical properties, uniaxial compressive strength and three-point bending strength tests were applied. The use of glass microspheres in gypsum-based mixtures increased the unit volume weight values. On the other hand, ultrasonic pulse velocity values decreased. The apparent porosity value was also reduced with the use of glass microspheres. Accordingly, decreases were observed in water absorption and capillary water absorption values. The thermal conductivity coefficient values gave better results with the use of glass microspheres than the reference plaster sample. The use of glass microspheres also caused a slight decrease in the mechanical properties of gypsum-based mixtures. However, it has been observed that this decrease is not very significant. The results show that by evaluating glass microspheres in gypsum-based mixtures, new gypsum-based products with higher water absorption resistance, acceptable mechanical properties, and improved thermal insulation properties can be produced.
Yazar isimleri: ['Orkun DEVREK', 'Ahmet Hayrullah SEVİNÇ', 'Muhammed Yasin DURGUN', 'Yusuf URAS']
Yayın Yılı: 3 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Kahramanmaraş Sütçü İmam Üniversitesi Mühendislik Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://jes.ksu.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/73671/1142101
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2531581
