Makale Başlığı: THE AUTHENTICITY OF THE RABBINIC TRADITION IN ABRAHAM IBN DAUD’S SEFER HA-QABBALAH
Özet: Abraham ibn Daud (d. 1180) was one of the leading Jewish scholars from Spain. During his lifetime, the Spanish lands witnessed wars between Christian kingdoms, Almoravids and Almohads. During this turbulent period, Rabbinic Jews were also exposed to Karaites’ criticism of belief and religious practices. In this process, Abraham ibn Daud wrote two basic works, one on faith and the other on history, to defend Judaism against attacks from outside. His work on faith is known as al-ʿAqıdah ̄ al-Rāfiʿah, the original has been lost and has survived in medieval Hebrew translation as ha-Emunah ha-Ramah. In his work al-ʿAqıdah al-Rāfi ̄ ʿah, Ibn Daud tries to interpret Judaism in the light of Aristotelian philosophy. Another major work of Ibn Daud is Sefer ha-Qabbalah, which is the subject of this article. In this work, the author attempts to refute the criticism of the Karaites against the Rabbanites. The Karaites are a Jewish movement that was formed in the 9th century. The main claim of the Karaites is that the Oral Torah held by the Rabbinic Jews has no divine authority. According to the Karaites, the Mishnah and Talmud, which are two major texts of the Oral Torah, consist of human-made words and consequently not the product of revelation. According to them, the tradition of the Rabbis does not go back to Moses, but it is an invented tradition by the rabbis. Therefore, it has no holiness. Karai scholars point out that there are contradicting quotations in the Mishnah and Talmud, and they argue that both of the opposite ideas cannot be the product of divine revelation at the same time. Apart from this, the Karaites claim that the Rabbanites interpreted the Torah according to their own minds and that they created new innovations in religion despite the prohibition by God. Ibn Daud also tries to refute the most basic Karai claims of his time in his Sefer ha-Qabbalah. The basic thesis of Ibn Daud is that the Rabbinic tradition has come to the present day without interruption since Moses. In order to prove this, the author points out that the tradition is recorded by mentioning the Jewish religious leaders and their students. Ibn Daud states that the Rabbanite tradition is transmitted from the mouth of reliable witnesses to reliable witnesses and draws attention to the fact that this situation creates an unbroken tradition. According to him, such an uninterrupted tradition is out of the question for the Karaites. Emphasizing that the Karaites are a heretical movement, Ibn Daud sees the Karaites as the continuation of the Sadducees. Ibn Daud often refers to the Karaites as Sadducees. This situation is not unique to Ibn Daud. Medieval Rabbinic scholars identify the Karaites with the Sadducees and refer to them as the Sadducees. According to Ibn Daud, contrary to what the Karaites claim, there is no fundamental difference of opinions in the sayings of Rabbis in the Mishnah and Talmud. He emphasizes that the differences between the Rabbis are about the details, and that there is no difference of opinion among them on the fundamental issues. Referring to the process of Anan ben David’s separation from the Rabbis, the author argues that when Anan was not brought to the head of the Jewish community, he took a different path against himself and opposed the Rabbis out of sheer greed and envy. Talking about the Karaite communities in Spain during his time, Ibn Daud draws attention to the spread of Karaism in the peninsula through an Andalusian Rabbanite Jew named Abul-Taras. Ibn Daud also reports by giving examples that among the Rabbanite Jews, those who took office in the state in Andalusia went against the Karaites and broke their influence. The author states that they did not write a work that would comfort the Jews and give them relief. Ibn Daud also sees the Karaites as a very small and ineffective community and states that the Rabbanites dispersed in very different geographies such as Iraq, Byzantium, North Africa, Palestine, Spain, Italy and France. According to him, such a situation constitutes separate evidence that the Rabbinate tradition is accepted by all Jews. According to Ibn Daud, the Karaites did nothing for the good of the Jews. Ibn Daud makes statements that contradict the historical facts at these points. First of all, he says that the Rabbinic Jews are spread over a very wide geography and that this is not the case of the Karaites. There are Karai communities in almost all of the lands mentioned by Ibn Daud. On the other hand, the productivity of the Karaites in religious literature is well-known. In fact, it is among the strong claims that his attempts at interpretations of the Torah also affected the Rabbani and forced them to work in this direction. In this article, besides giving general information about Sefer ha-Qabbalah, the information in the book will also be evaluated.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yasin MERAL']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Kilis 7 Aralık Üniversitesi İlahiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/k7auifd/issue/70950/1095348
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2340371
