Makale Başlığı: An example of contamination in Turkish: siktir
Özet: There are a few aspects that need to be clarified about the word siktir “fuck off” in Turkish, whose usage for the purpose ‘to fire’ can be witnessed in texts since the second half of the 19th century. The first of these concerns the origin of the word. No explanation about the origin of the word is available in etymological dictionaries of Turkish. Slang dictionaries also do not provide an explanation on this word. While only one of the major (contemporary/general) Turkish dictionaries (ÖTS) that gives the word as an entry directs the reader to the sik- “to fuck” form, the others implicitly do the same on the basis of the alphabetical order of the word. The 'vulgar' usage of the word and its current sound structure prevent the analysis of the available inclinations. Associating the origin of the word to sek- “to leap, to bound” is one of the results of this article. For this association process, the examples that meet the needs in the historical and contemporary dialects of the Turkish language the forms with sek- and its derivatives were employed. Within this context, attention has been drawn to the process that results in the basic meaning of sek-, which is represented by the root of '(by bouncing), 'running away, (bounce) running, limping' as a metaphor, and finally the meaning of the word sik- “to fuck” is contaminated with sek- “to leap, to bounce”. Another aspect that needs to be clarified is how the word siktir “fuck off” should be given as an entry in the dictionaries. It has been found out that the word is presented only as a noun, only as a verb, or as both a noun and a verb in different dictionaries. In fact, it is emphasized in this article that the word, which has become used as a lexeme by freezing while being a verb, should be given as an entry in the dictionaries both as a verb (siktirip gitmek) and as a noun (siktir et-, siktir çek- etc.)
Yazar isimleri: ['Kaan YILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1192519
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2722518
