Makale Başlığı: Factors on development and severity of acute radiodermatitis: prospective single-center study
Özet: Aim: Although prior literature has examined the treatment and patient-associated factors affecting the development and severity of acute radiodermatitis, there are relatively few prospective studies evaluating both. This study was prospectively designed to evaluate factors affecting the development and extent of radiation-induced acute skin toxicity called radiodermatitis (RD). Material and Method: A total of 63 patients who underwent radiotherapy (RT) in Ankara Atatürk Research and Education Hospital between July 2017 and October 2018 were evaluated. Patients’ demographic status, disease/treatment details, hemoglobin, ferritin, folic acid, Vit B12, and hemoglobin A1c values were recorded. The development and grade of RD were evaluated weekly by the same radiation oncologist using the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) radiation toxicity guideline.Results: There was no significant relationship between the development of any degree of RD and gender, concomitant chemotherapy (CT), pre-RT CT, comorbid disease, RT technique and blood parameters (Hb, Hba1c, ferritin, folic acid and B12). The development of grade 2-3 RD was significantly affected by the number of operations (p=0.032) and total dose of RT (p=0.008). In patients with grade 2/3 RD, the RT dose at which RD first appeared was 20 Gy (range, 14-36); in patients with grade 1 RD, this value was 32 Gy (range, 16-56) (p=0.018).Conclusion: There is no significant relationship between the development of acute radiodermatitis and Hba1c, hemoglobin, ferritin, B12 and folic acid levels. There was a significant correlation between grade of RD and repeated surgery, increase in total RT dose and early onset of RD.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gonca ALTINIŞIK İNAN', 'Alaettin ARSLAN', 'İpek Pınar ARAL', 'Suheyla AYTAÇ ARSLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 22 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Anatolian Current Medical Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/acmj/issue/73102/1147758
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2553737
