Makale Başlığı: Investigation of tele-health service, a strategic innovation in the covid-19 pandemic with SWOT analysis
Özet: Being able to adapt to changing environmental conditions is extremely important for the sustainability of organizations. At this point, it is necessary to make strategic decisions by foreseeing the future. Especially during the Covid-19 pandemic process, this requirement has been understood more clearly for all sectors. In the health sector, there were problems in accessing health services due to the restrictions imposed due to the pandemic. In order to overcome these problems, a strategic decision was made to benefit from telecommunication technologies. With this research, it is aimed to create strategies for the development of these services by evaluating tele-health services consisting of services based on telecommunication technologies during the Covid-19 pandemic process. Research data were collected by semi-structured interview method, one of the qualitative research methods. Within the scope of the research, 14 family physicians were reached and the data obtained from these family physicians were evaluated. In the study, the views of family physicians on tele-health services that they had to use during the Covid-19 pandemic were analyzed with the SWOT Analysis technique. As a result of the analysis, the obstacles and risks in front of the development of tele-health services were determined and strategies for their elimination were developed. In addition, it has been determined that there are many strengths of tele-health and opportunities to support the development of tele-health in the context of the views of family physicians participating in the research. On the other hand, it has been determined that tele-health, which is planned to be used in our country, has weaknesses that need to be developed and threats that negatively affect or have the potential to affect its development.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gülhan GÖK']
Yayın Yılı: 9 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Business Economics and Management Research Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bemarej/issue/73285/1195186
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2733456
