Makale Başlığı: Poetry, biography and dictionary resources of Arabic literature
Özet: In this article, the names of the sources of Arabic language and literature and their important features are explained. In the first place, the sources of poetry are discussed. It has been researched which sources can be consulted in order to determine the poets who sing the poems and to reveal their meanings. In the second place, rhetoric and literary criticism books were included. Then, the main biographical works that are important for the researcher to know are introduced. Finally, the classical and basic dictionaries, which play a major role in the proper analysis of words and concepts, are presented to the researcher's knowledge. One of the aims of this study is to bring together the sources of Arabic literature, especially for the benefit of the graduate student. Thus, it will be possible to eliminate the confusion and difficulties experienced while writing the thesis to a great extent. Of course, the faculty member he works with will guide him as necessary. However, it is not easy for the student, who is one of the goals of postgraduate education, to reach the sources and to use the information in these sources properly, thus obtaining the research ability, and it may take a long time. In this case, the importance of source information emerges, especially for a researcher at the thesis stage. It is clear that graduate education is not just about getting information about something that the student does not know by asking questions. On the contrary, it is necessary for him to gain the library culture and to be in touch with the resources. So that he can enjoy research and learning and finish his work with his own effort. On the other hand, as far as it can be seen, studies on Arabic literature sources are mostly divided into categories and a part of the subject is discussed in detail. In this way, classical period poetry sources, strata books and so on. There are very valuable studies in the form of books and articles on the subject. However, presenting the basic sources of Arabic language and literature in a concise manner without going into details may be more beneficial for those who are at the beginner level or who have no knowledge at all. This article has been prepared based on the impressions of the 'Basic Sources of Arabic Language and Literature' graduate course taught in the spring semester of the 2021-2022 academic year at Hitit University Faculty of Theology. The aim of the study is to ensure that both people who have started their master's degree and stepped into the academic community, and those who are at the beginning of the business and want to improve themselves in this subject, get to know the Arabic language and literature closely and can easily access the resources. Therefore, the most referenced sources in this field will be introduced. In the study, the main works are listed chronologically under the subject headings. Another feature of this study is that the names of the works and authors are written in Arabic letters and the death dates of the authors are given.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1193069
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2724686
