Makale Başlığı: Metaheuristic based optimization of tuned mass dampers on single degree of freedom structures subjected to near fault vibrations
Özet: Near fault ground motions excitations have specificcharacteristics comparing to regular earthquake excitations. Near fault groundmotions contain directivity pulses and flint steps in different directions andthese excitations are the reason of more damages than regular excitations forstructures. A successful method to reduce structural vibrations is the usage oftuned mass dampers. By using optimally tuned mass dampers, it will be possibleto reduce vibrations resulting from earthquake excitations. In the presentstudy, the optimization of tuned mass dampers are done for near faultexcitations. During optimization, 6 different pulse like excitations are used.Three of these excitations are directivity pulses while the other ones areflint steps. The periods of excitations are 1.5s, 2.0s and 2.5s since nearfault pulses have long period and big peak ground velocity around 200 m/s. Theoptimization objectives are related to maximum displacement of structure intime domain, the maximum stroke limitation of tuned mass damper and transferfunction of the structure in frequency domain analyses. The iterativeoptimization process uses both time and frequency domain analyses of thestructure. Three different metaheuristic algorithms are used in themethodology. These methods are harmony search algorithm, teaching learningbased optimization and flower pollination algorithm which are inspired frommusical performances, education process and reproduction of flowering plants,respectively. As the numerical investigation, three different single degree offreedom structures with periods 1.5s, 2.0s and 2.5s are investigated foroptimum mass, period and damping ratio of a tuned mass damper positioned on thestructure.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sinan Melih Nigdeli', 'Gebrail Bekdaş']
Yayın Yılı: 10 Ekim 2019
Dergi ismi: European Journal of Engineering and Natural Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ejens/issue/49410/372213
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/826667
