Makale Başlığı: TGF-β1 expression and mesangial alterations in rat glomeruli of an experimental chronic nephrosis model
Özet: Objective: Puromycine aminonucleosidenephrosis (PAN) is extensively used as an experimental model of proteinuriafollowing podocyte injury. In PAN animal models, nephrotic syndrome withminimal change disease and focal segmental sclerosis-like nephritis isdemonstrated to be similar to that in human; however, the real mechanism of PANis not yet elucidated. Evidence shows that transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1) plays a key via stimulating matrix protein synthesis of bothglomerular epithelial and mesangial cells. In this study, we aimed to examinethe relationship between TGF-β expression and accumulation in mesangial matrix(MM) by the changes in renal function and ultrastructure alterations in renalglomeruli of the chronic PAN induced rats.Methods: Twelve male Wistar albino ratswere divided into two groups: control group (n=6), chronic group (n=6). Alldata was statistically analyzed by One-way ANOVA Test. Results: Proteinuria levels in the chronicnephrosis groups were greater than the control (p<0.0025) whereas the levelsof serum albumin and creatinine clearances were progressively decreased(p<0.05). TGF-β1 expression and MM were both significantly increased in PANgroup. Ultrastructural images of glomeruli of PAN showed apoptotic endotheliumand mesangial cells, interstitial collagen and macrophages in increased MM. Conclusion: Our findings suggest thatchronic PAN application induces a nephrotic syndrome, leading to renalimpairment by TGF-β1 expression in glomeruli, increase in MM, formation ofabundant interstitial collagen, and migration of macrophages. We suggest thatchronic PAN progressively increases TGF-β1 expression and apoptosis followingexpansion of mesangial matrix in the affected glomeruli. This study needsfurther researches to determine the main source and signal pathway of TGF-β1expression by double staining methods.Cite this article as: Seçkin İ, Uzunalan M,Ayaz Pekpak M, Köktürk S, Sönmez HA, Güngör ZB. TGF-β1 expression and mesangialalterations in rat glomeruli of an experimental chronic nephrosis model.Cerrahpasa Med J 2019; 43(1): 6-12.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 1 Temmuz 2019
Dergi ismi: Cerrahpaşa Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iucerrahpasa/issue/46677/585295
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/750406
