Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Submaximal Exercises on Static Postural Adaptations and Back Pain: Comparison of Transtibial and Transfemoral Amputees
Özet: Objective: To evaluate and compare static postural adaptations and the effect of submaximal exercise on posture and back pain in Transtibial (TTA) and Transfemoral (TFA) amputees. Materials and Methods: In prospective study, male participants with unilateral transtibial (n: 14; age: 36.36±12.15 years) and transfemoral (n:15; age:27.36±7.60 years) amputation were included. Postural parameters were measured by analyzing images taken from ADIBAS Posture (Physical TECH, Spain) in free standing and standing where the body weight was evenly distributed to extremities. 6-Minute Walk Test was performed as submaximal exercise; all evaluations were repeated after exercise. Back pain was assessed by Wong-Baker Pain Scale. Results: In TTA group, before submaximal exercise, in free standing, the difference between intact and amputated side lordosis angle was found significant (p: 0.019). Following the submaximal exercise, the plane angle of Spina Iliaca Posterior Superior differed significantly between standing positions (p: 0.041). In TFA group, the shoulder plane angle showed significant difference between the stance positions before the submaximal exercise (p: 0.015) and this situation continued after the exercise (p: 0.003). The distance covered in submaximal exercise is higher in favor of TTAs (p<0.001). Pain increased significantly following submaximal exercise in both groups (p<0.05) Conclusion: The results of the study showed the level of amputation does not have a distinctive effect on the development of static postural adaptations. Similarly, it was determined the effect of submaximal exercise on posture and back pain are not affected by the level of amputation. With early rehabilitation program, adaptations and back pain can be reduced, even prevented.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ecem KAYA', 'Nilüfer KABLAN', 'Yaşar TATAR']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Hacettepe Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/husbfd/issue/70114/974379
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1891635
