Makale Başlığı: An Essay on the place of the Tarih-i Gılmânî in Seventeenth-Century Ottoman Historiography
Özet: Considering seventeenth century Ottoman historical writing and the place of Mehmed Halife’s Târih-i Gılmânî within it requires one to closely examine the social, economic, and political changes that took place in the seventeenth century Ottoman Empire. It was a century during which the empire was going through a substantial transformation, not only in political and economical terms, but also intellectually. The economic and demographic ramifications of the “seventeenth century crisis” would affect the entire system. Thus, the seventeenth century is considered to have been a crucial era in the history of the Ottoman Empire due to its changing internal dynamics and characteristics that were to give way to the modernization of the Ottoman State. This paper analyzes the place of the Târih-i Gılmânî in seventeenth century history writing emphasizing its linguistic and thematic peculiarities. Like many seventeenth-century chronicles, the Târih-i Gılmânî used the similar stylistic patterns portraying the world as wie es eigentlich gewesen. Nonetheless, one ought to tread carefully when considering the linguistic style of the chronicle, which may include additional revelations between the lines. For example, words carefully chosen may reveal the closeness of the writer to high post officials, who were likely his protectors or commissioners. Therefore, one should be cautious in describing seventeenth century history writing as portraying the world wie es eigentlich gewesen. Nor would it be true to disparage the existence of the sultan’s personality in seventeenth century history writing as a non-issue.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gürer KARAGEDİKLİ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Vakanüvis - Uluslararası Tarih Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/vakanuvis/issue/72861/1168330
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2621725
