Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Interventions on Disease Management for Children with Asthma: A Systematic Review
Özet: This study was conducted to examine the literature on disease management programs in children with asthma. In the literature review, PubMed, ScienceDirect, Cochrane and Wiley databases were searched by using the keywords "asthma" and "children" and "disease management" and "nursing". Toplam 2282 makale belirlenmiştir. The search is limited to the publication year 2013-2020, the publication language is English, and the search area is title, abstract and keywords. Ten articles which met the inclusion and exclusion criteria were evaluated. The analyzed studies were synthesized as author name-surname, year of publication, country and journal, study design, purpose, sample, method, result and database. 6 of the studies were randomized controlled experimental study, 3 were pretest-posttest one-group quasi-experimental study, and 1 was a prospective randomized controlled pilot study. The ages of the participants range from 2 to 18 years. Most of the studies are education-based initiatives. The implemented initiatives reduced the severity of the disease, physical limitation, school absenteeism, emergency service admissions, and the frequency of hospitalization in children; increased sleep quality, disease self-management, disease knowledge level and quality of life. In conclusion, these data show that various interventions to improve disease management in children with asthma are effective. For this reason, it is recommended that pediatric nurses and school health nurses plan multi-faceted intervention attempts by identifying the problems which the children with asthma experience regarding symptom control.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gamze KAŞ', 'Serap BALCI']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Cumhuriyet Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://cusbed.cumhuriyet.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/72370/1069623
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2238468
