Makale Başlığı: Doric Capitals from Ancient City of Attouda
Özet: In this study, 11 Doric column capitals found in the ancient city of Attouda, located in the Hisar District of Sarayköy district of Denizli province, were discussed. The aforementioned Doric capitals were discovered for the first time during the surveys carried out in 2021. Most of these identified Doric capitals have been used as spolia, such as wall limiters and stair steps in the gardens of the houses belonging to the Hisar Village, built in the ancient city of Attouda. This situation shows that blocks were moved from their original places depending on the secondary use and distributed to different areas. Two of the Doric capitals have been examined in some previous scientific studies, and it is aimed to bring the other blocks to the literature for the first time with this work. In this study, in which the Doric capitals of the ancient city were handled holistically for the first time, new determinations were made on the architectural tradition, style, and direction of interaction that the ancient city of Attouda had during the Late Hellenistic–Early Roman Imperial Period. These new determinations about Doric capitals are essential in understanding the architectural tradition of the ancient city. Because most of the buildings belonging to the ancient city remained under the residences of Hisar Village, which was declared as a 1st Degree Archaeological Site and Urban Archaeological Site, and 143 of which were registered. For this reason, the materials belonging to the architectural structures found in the city will provide important information about the ancient construction of Attouda. The capitals introduced here for the first time reveal the  value of the material.
Yazar isimleri: ['Adem YURTSEVER', 'Bilge YILMAZ KOLANCI']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Cedrus
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cedrus/issue/70538/1059562
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2199054
