Makale Başlığı: A Qualitative Study on the Transformation of Urban Industrial Areas: The Behind of Izmır Alsancak Port
Özet: Deindustrialization and factory closures are two currently observed phenomena that result in the fundamental transformation of cities. Recently, studies on these phenomena predominantly focus on the analysis of the deindustrialization process and tracking the employment status after the shutdown of factories through macro indicators. However, relevant literature remains weak to reveal the functional transitions of the area after such processes and does not explain how the locals are affected. To fill this gap, this study is focusing on Liman Ardi, a prior industrial area of Izmir. The main purpose of the study is to discuss the experiences of the employees who were disconnected from the factorial area after the shutdown, which is the cause of such a functional transition, and to shed light on the whole process through the perspective of the main actors. To achieve this, semi-structured interviews were conducted to investigate the experiences of 11 former factory workers who worked in Tekel Tobacco Factory, Sumerbank Factory, and Halkapinar Workshop after the shutdowns. Once the interviews were transcribed, they were coded through the MAXQDA 2020 program. Industrialization/deindustrialization processes and the development of Izmir were the two emerging themes in this study. Within the scope of the study, it was determined that unemployment and significant alterations in the type of employment that emanate from factorial shutdowns severely affected the dynamics of the local area. Moreover, there was no predominant type of usage of the area after the functional transition. While some of the factories were left to stand idle, factory areas currently used are mostly for educational purposes.
Yazar isimleri: ['Uğurcan AYİK', 'Cumali ÖGEL']
Yayın Yılı: 18 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Ege Coğrafya Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ecd/issue/73924/1178307
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2663305
