Makale Başlığı: The Concept of Maʿrūf in the Context of Classical Period Arabic Dictionaries and Qurʾānic Verses
Özet: Concept analysis covers a wide area among the studies carried out around the subjects that the Qurʾān deals with.  In this context, we have centred the concept of maʿrūf in our study. In this direction, not only the concept of maʿrūf but also the meaning structure of the word was examined by the majority of dictionaries in the classical period. In this context, it is aimed to understand the meanings that the word has acquired later. In our dictionary research, the noun and verb derivatives on which the concept of maʿrūf is based have been classified. In addition to the thulāsī mujarrad-mazīd states on which the concept is based, the literal and metaphorical uses of noun derivatives have also been revealed through dictionaries. In the second stage, maʿrūf in the Qurʾān has been categorized. According to this, it has been determined that the maʿrūf concept in the Qurʾān is used in the sense of "ordering good and forbidding evil" in the first classification in which the concept of maʿrūf is used in the task of maf‘ūl bih. In the second classification, it is seen that maʿrūf is used as a characteristic of various situations. It has been seen that there are general and special uses in the use of maf‘ūl bih, that is, to order goodness in the object position. In general, it was used in the context of matters related to faith and worship, and in particular, it is used in the context of the Prophet's ordering maʿrūf or, on the contrary, forbidding goodness by hypocrites. In this way, it has been understood in which framework the use of objects in the form of commanding goodness takes place in the Qurʾān. It is seen that the concept of maʿrūf is used more often as an adjective in the Qurʾān. Among them, there are issues such as obedience to the Prophet, good treatment towards parents, observing the rights of orphans, speaking well when talking to people, conducting marriage and divorce processes well, being fair in matters of retaliation. By obedience to the Prophet honourably; it is seen that it is meant to be willing both in heart and deed. Another issue, which is to treat parents according to the benevolent, is to treat them with good morals in worldly affairs, mild disposition, enduring their torment, doing good, continuing to family, and not accepting the family's request only if the person's parents are invited to shirk. It is understood that they should do this without breaking them. When it comes to behaving according to the benevolent regarding the use of the property of orphans, it is understood that if the guardian who cares for the orphan is poor, it is necessary for him to benefit from his property as much as it would be necessary. On the other hand, in a verse, it is emphasized that it is better to say nice heartfelt words than to say hurtful words after giving alms. Secondly, it is understood that by saying appropriate words about going to war, it is meant people say words about their willingness. Thirdly, he states that the words of the Prophet's wives should not emphasize their femininity by speaking harshly. Another issue that should have the title of maʿrūf is that if retaliation not taking place in the case of murder, the retaliation given should be according to the maʿrūf. According to the maʿrūf, the retaliation should be in the amount appropriate to the custom the guardian would approve and the person responsible for giving the diet should give the determined one without delay. It seems necessary to act according to the maʿrūf in the matter of will, and it is understood that it is according to the maʿrūf the guardian bequeaths only one third of his property to the poor. Finally, it is considered necessary to act in accordance with the maʿrūf in marriage and divorce processes. On giving mahr, which is among the marriage process, and making a living with the agreement of the husband and wife in divorce processes, the man’s behaviour towards the woman in accordance with the maʿrūf in the process of a period of delay (the iddat time) and after this period, the alimony is given according to the maʿrūf after the divorce, and the woman's meeting with someone else in accordance with the maʿrūf after the divorce. In summary, the concept of maʿrūf; the meaning of it that it is good and beautiful, and that people do good in their behaviours towards both Allah and the Prophet and in human relations.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatma YALNIZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Tokat İlmiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ilmiyat/issue/70723/1082646
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2289217
