Makale Başlığı: EXAMINING THE COMPLIANCE OF UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES WITH CORPORATE IDENTITY BASED ON COLOR
Özet: Libraries, one of the physical facilities of universities, are places that support education by providing information and culture transfer, and they are secondary places where students spend a lot of time and socialize on campus. Libraries, which are a part of the university, also form a part of the corporate identity of the university, so it is possible to read the reflections of the corporate identity of the university through libraries. In addition to the corporate image and development of universities, library spaces designed in accordance with corporate identity can also be used for students and academics to improve their commitment to the corporate and corporate culture. For this reason, due to the importance of 'preference' among universities in today's world conditions, it is aimed to trace the reflections of corporate identity in the library interiors of foundation and state universities and to raise awareness on this issue.In the study, the identity of the institution was handled through color and with a qualitative research method, the colors reflecting the institutional identity of the universities were determined from the logo and general interior visuals and compared with the colors used in the border elements in the library interiors. The interior spaces of university libraries have been examined through the meanings and perceptual effects of colors in marketing and interior architecture. Since the majority of universities in Turkey are located in Istanbul, the scope of the study is limited to the Anatolian side of Istanbul in terms of ease of access and close proximity to each other. Among the 21 state and foundation universities located on the Anatolian side of Istanbul, the universities where their libraries are located as a separate building in the campus were determined as samples. Although universities library spaces examined were designed with meticulous and innovative approaches, it was observed that foundation university libraries reflect the corporate identity more in the use of color than state university libraries. In the corporate identity studies of universities, the design of the library interiors together with all other spaces and the creation of corporate guides for the use of color in the spaces will contribute to the corporate image of the universities and will be an important factor for the development of the university.
Yazar isimleri: ['Gamze TAYILGA']
Yayın Yılı: 18 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Yıldız Journal of Art and Design
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/yjad/issue/70535/1160631
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2590755
