Makale Başlığı: Women’s Rights as One of the Fundamental Issues of The Qur’an in the Modern Period: An Evaluation of Egypt and Rashid Rida
Özet: With modernization, issues related to women in the Islamic world have come to the fore with a more intense emphasis than in previous periods. The issue was generally discussed in relation to the rights of women in Islam and the position of Muslim women in the modern world. In these discussions, it was claimed that the eastern people should be saved from the influence of Islamic sources in the criticisms coming from the West. Modern Islamic thinkers have responded to the criticism asserting that the problem is not in the basic sources of Islam, but in the interpretation of Islam. During this period, Egypt was the center of political, cultural and educational correctional activities, and it was a fertile geography in terms of the names who were the pioneers of the reformation of ideas relating to women. Mohammad Abdoh, one of these important names of the Egyptian region, and his students appear to have a particularly important role in the efforts to prove against the West that Islam does not restrict women’s rights. However, Rashid Rida stands out as the most important follower of Abdoh. In this respect, it is important to consider the issue of women’s rights in the period of modernization within the framework of Rashid Rida’s views. In the current study, an answer was sought to the question in which context and with what motives Rida’s views on women’s rights emerged. Based on this research question, Rida’s ideas on women’s rights were analyzed by considering the effect of the modern context. As a result of this analysis, it is seen that Rida’s views on the subject have been shaped by the developments in the context of modernization and by the influence of criticism from the West on women’s rights in Islam. Rida aims to reveal the “true” view of Islam, centered on the Qur’an, between complete westernization that would alienate women from their nature and, the interpretations that emerged 
Yazar isimleri: ['Gülnur KÜLÜNKOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: KADEM Kadın Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kademkad/issue/70604/1137321
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2525676
