Makale Başlığı: Examining the Relationship Between National Economic Policy Uncertainty and Stock Market Indices: An Empirical Analysis for Selected European Countries
Özet: The literature on economics and finance accepts uncertainty as an important factor affecting investor behavior. As areflection of what is expected from countries’ economies, economic policy uncertainty indices were developed basedon the USA economy and then were diversified for different countries and formed based on the news. Economic policyuncertainty can be a guide for stock market investors in estimating stock returns, in line with the effects cash flowshave on stock returns. The aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between economic policy uncertainty andstock market indices. The study investigates the relationship between the data Europe’s leading stock markets indicesand these countries’ national economic policy uncertainty indices within the scope of panel data analyses using thepanel autoregressive distributed lag model/pooled mean group estimator (ARDL/PMG). The five European countriesexamined in this direction are; Germany, Italy, England, France, and Spain. A panel data-set was created using thesecountries’ national economic policy uncertainty indices for the December 2002-October 2021 period and benchmarkstock market indices’ closing prices. According to the research results, significant short-term and long-term negativerelationships have been determined to exist between the indices of Europe’s leading stock markets and the respectiveeconomic policy uncertainty indices for the whole panel. The short-term correlation coefficients per country; show asignificant negative relationship to exist between economic policy uncertainty and stock market index prices for allexamined countries. In line with the findings obtained from the study; the national economic policy uncertainty indicesin European countries can be said to be leading indicators for guiding investors in estimating stock market returns. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Kübra SAKA ILGIN']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: İktisat Politikası Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iuipad/issue/71907/1074582
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2257483
