Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Staying at Home Due to the COVID-19 Pandemic on Functional Capacity and Balance in Children with Hemiparetic Cerebral Palsy
Özet: Objective: TThis study was carried out to examine the effects of staying at home due to the COVID-19 pandemic on the functional capacity and balance of children with hemiparetic Cerebral Palsy (CP).Material and Method: Thirty-seven children with hemiparetic CP, aged 7-14 years, , were included in the study. Evaluations were conducted on the online video conferencing with one month intervals during the full closure period. After the first evaluation, a second evaluation was conducted following one month of no treatment. 10 meters walking test, dynamic timed get up and go test, stand on one leg test, sit and stand from chair test were used in the evaluation.Results: No statistically significant difference was found between the completion times of the Timed Up and Go test in patients with hemiparetic CP between the first and second evaluations (p>0.05). There was a statistically significant difference between the 10-meter walking test times and the Sit-Up from Chair test times in the first and second evaluations (p<0.05). The difference observed in the 10-meter walking test was found to be of minimal clinical significance. There was a statistically significant difference between the results of the single-leg stance test on the affected side (p<0.05).Conclusion: It was observed that during the one-month period when children with CP could not receive physiotherapy and rehabilitation due to the staying at home period in the COVID-19 pandemic, their walking speed was adversely affected, and there was a tendency for deterioration in balance and functional capacity. These results showed that not receiving rehabilitation support even for a short time period in children with hemiparetic CP will lead to negative effects.
Yazar isimleri: ['Derya AZİM REZAEİ', 'Güzin KAYA AYTUTULDU', 'Burcu ERSÖZ HÜSEYİNSİNOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Mayıs 2022
Dergi ismi: İzmir Katip Çelebi Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ikcusbfd/issue/70141/979967
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1913461
