Makale Başlığı: ACTION-ORIENTED APPROACH TO FRENCH LANGUAGE TEACHING IN TURKEY
Özet: The 21st century sense of education, which embraces the idea that learning is a lifelong activity, places the learner at the center of the education process and defines it as the actor of this process. In the first place, as a social individual, the learner needs to express himself\herself at where he\she has been living as a course of his\her nature. Especially the base of foreign language learning stands on the individual’s need to communicate with a language besides of mother his\her mother language. On the other hand, speaking is the most difficult one of the four basic skills in foreign language education. The ability of a language user to express his / her thoughts, opinions and intentions is not only limited by lexicology and grammatical rules, but also requires managing the language appropriately for the context in real communication situations through pragmatic ability related to directing social relations. This ability can only be improved by frequent use of the language that is being learned in daily communication situations. There is no possibility of transferring lots of word patterns and the structural information to the dimension of natural communication in the countries like Turkey which the language being taught is not used out of the educational environment. Therefore, this study aims to examine the ability of Turkish students, who are learning French as a foreign language in Turkey, to transfer their linguistic knowledge that they acquired using the virtual interaction processes in the classroom environment. In this framework, an answer will be looked for the question of ‘Are the achievements that are specified as standard?’ by Common European Framework of Reference For Languages, which puts the learner into the center of the learning process and adopts an goal-oriented language approach also possible with the activities in the method books devoted to foreign language education? 
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 2 Temmuz 2017
Dergi ismi: İstanbul Eğitimde Yenilikçilik Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ieyd/issue/35554/422354
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/470220
