Makale Başlığı: 33 Teachers' Use of Technology in The Distance Education of Gifted Students in the COVID-19 Process
Özet: The aim of this study is to examine the problems teachers face in using technology in distance education of gifted students and the strategies to cope with these problems. 14 teachers were included in the study in which case study design was used. Semi-structured interview form was used to collect research data. The analysis of the data was made in accordance with the content analysis technique. As a result of the research, the problems faced by teachers in using technology in the distance education of gifted students are internet-related problems, problems with digital content, problems arising from technological tools, problems related to digital security, and problems related to technology financing. Internet-related problems faced by teachers are listed as slowing connection speed, disconnection and exceeding the quota. The problems with digital content in distance education were highlighted as limited digital content for special talents and the lack of teachers' ability to develop digital content. Problems arising from technological tools are expressed as computers' failure to remove some programs, time limitations in programs, complex interfaces and inadequate interaction (writing, drawing shapes, making applications) The strategies of teachers to cope with these problems are to improve their technology use skills and get support from other people. clustered in two sub categories. Teachers' strategies for developing technology use skills are to participate in distance education, to conduct research, to watch instructional videos, to do trial and error, and to use previous training. Strategies for getting support from other people were emphasized by teachers as getting expert support, getting support from colleagues, getting support from a spouse, getting support from an Information Technology teacher and getting technical service support.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet ÖZDOĞRU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2021
Dergi ismi: Eğitim ve Teknoloji
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/egitek/issue/60570/931181
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1745226
