Makale Başlığı: The Effects of Song Teaching with Piano Accompaniment on Student Acquisition in 7th Grade Music Courses: A Case of Denizli Province
Özet: The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of teaching school songs by piano accompaniment on student achievement. The two methods have been employed for this study as descriptive and experimental. In the descriptive part, the following have been done by literature review:1. To collect the information related to music courses in elementary school2. To examine the curriculum of elementary school music courses3. To review related literatüre about the	importance of piano accompaniment.In the experimental part, the post-test model with a control group has been used. The observation and control checklists were developed by taking the opinions of two educational sciences and six music education experts. The observation checklist was composed of 24 items and eight evaluation criteria were identified for each song. The Likert type measurement scale was used for the observation checklist including “everybody”, “majority”, “many”, “a few”, “nobody”. The population includes all students attending MDDEIO during the 2010-2011 academic year. The sample of the study was composed of 33 students of 7/A and 7/B classes. To determine sample groups, a test developed depending on the opinions of experts was given to students and two groups were determined as equal. The experimental and control groups were selected randomly. Three songs including Ata’ya Saygı, Notaların Şarkısı, and Türk’üm were selected to be used during experimental procedures. The data obtained from the experimental procedures were analyzed by employing Mann-Whitney U and Kruskall Wallis techniques. The findings of this research showed that piano accompaniment has affected the students positively and there have been significant differences between experiment and control groups in terms of 8 criteria that need to be gained.
Yazar isimleri: ['Serkan DEMİRTAŞ', 'Özlem AKIN ŞİŞMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ekim 2021
Dergi ismi: Güzel Sanatlar Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ataunigsed/issue/65570/880869
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1579461
