Makale Başlığı: The Effects of Tourism on Urban Identity and Social Life in Alanya
Özet: The tourism sector has created different effects on the regions it covers since the first day it emerged. The aim of this study is to reveal the views of people living in Alanya about the effects of tourism activities on urban identity and social life. In the research, case study was used as a qualitative research method. 15 people who were determined by criterion sampling, one of the purposeful sampling methods, participated in the research. The data of the research were compiled through a semi-structured interview form developed by the researchers and finalized in line with expert opinions. Descriptive analysis was used in the evaluation of the data obtained from the participants. As a result of the descriptive analysis, various categories related to the questions in the interview form were reached. Regarding the preferences of the participants to live in Alanya, the desire to love Alanya very much, to serve the city where they live, to have natural and cultural riches, to work in the tourism sector in Alanya, to be close to the sea in residential areas, and to be born in Alanya and the family's residence in Alanya. According to the data obtained from the interviewees in general, it has been understood that tourism is the sector that has the most important share in the development of Alanya in the last half century. In addition, it has been concluded that tourism has various effects on Alanya in cultural, economic, architectural and environmental dimensions. Based on the results obtained from the research, some suggestions were presented to researchers, sector employers, local and central government powers.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hilmi DEMİRKAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Sosyal ve Eğitim Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijoses/issue/72043/1168058
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2620485
