Makale Başlığı: Thoughts on the Prohibition of Expansion and Change of Claims and Defenses in Administrative Judicial Procedure
Özet: The prohibition of expansion and change of claims and defenses in the administrative judicial procedure is based on Article 16/4 of the Code of Administrative Judicial Procedure. There are various assumptions in the jurisprudence of the Council of State and the doctrine on the scope of the prohibition and its beginning moment. When these assumptions are considered together with the distinctive institutions of the administrative judicial procedure, the prohibition becomes dysfunctional. This paper argues that the prohibition of expansion and change of the claims and defenses in administrative judicial procedure will apply to the grounds for the defense as well as the statement of claim. It is among the theses of this study that the prohibition of expansion and change of the statement of claim is not absolute within the framework of the Articles 5/1, 7/4, 3/2-(b), 14/3- (g), 15/1-(d) and 16/4 of the Code of Administrative Judicial Procedure. While there is no prohibition for grounds of action, grounds for the defense are within the scope of the prohibition. Ex officio investigation of the grounds for the defense by the courts contrasts with Article 125/4 of the Constitution and Article 2/2 of the Code of Administrative Judicial Procedure. The court’s consideration of the grounds given by the defendant after the beginning of the prohibition further violates Article 16/4 of the Code of Administrative Judicial Procedure. The beginning of the prohibition concerning the plaintiff is the deadline for filing a response to the statement of defense. Moreover, for the defendant, this date is the deadline for filing the second statement of defense. To emphasize the theses of this paper, firstly, the exchange of petitions and the concept of additional statements will be explained. Then, the civil procedural form of this prohibition will be examined. This examination will facilitate the interpretation of the prohibition in the administrative judicial procedure. Before determining the scope and the beginning moment of the prohibition, the legal basis of it will be analyzed and, the approaches in the doctrine will be discussed. Finally, the scope and the beginning moment of the prohibition will be presented within the framework of administrative lawsuits.
Yazar isimleri: ['Burkay Can KARA']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: İdare Hukuku ve İlimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iuihid/issue/68180/1126710
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2469553
