Makale Başlığı: Ali Akbaş’s Poetry: A theme study in the context of folk songs
Özet: Through folk songs, our people convey the pain that manifests itself in forms such as migrations, wars, separations, and close losses, first to themselves, then to their immediate surroundings, and then to the whole Turkish society at various places and times, thanks to the compositions made and various performers. But among these pains, perhaps the most important issue, which is among the subjects of the folk songs, is the emotions that deeply affect the society through the deaths. These feelings have been a part of the folk songs, especially in the form of lament. In this context, it should be mentioned that after a certain time from the date of writing of a work, it is also seen that as a result of various additions to the folk song, the original lament forms turn into play moods with a structure that does not match in style. In fact, when it is necessary to focus on this element and considering this situation in the context of folk songs, this issue should be seen as a weakness and should be perceived as an issue. Because as the essence deteriorates, joy emerges instead of the pain caused by death, and this does not match with the main one. Or when we look at this issue from another point of view, it is seen that the folk song has become incompatible with the values of the society. Many folk songs that appear in this way can be found in the repertoire. It can be said that this issue is partly due to the transmission of oral tradition. However, folk songs that are the values of our society, in which the lives of Turkish society, which manifest in various forms, are conveyed in a musical tone with their laments, play tunes, broken or long tunes or various modes, carry them to the future with the permanence of sound and especially harmony. These values appear to the reader as a theme that seems to have an important place and has a prominent place when all poems of Ali Akbaş, who treats many themes in his poetry, are scanned. One of the prominent themes in Ali Akbaş's poetry is folk songs. In this study, folk songs, in which the Turkish society, especially its pains, are reflected, are classified as maqams, performers and the concept of folk song in poems. The reason for making this classification is because these titles are prominent themes in Akbaş's poetry. Although folk songs are not addressed directly in some of Akbaş's poems, it is seen that discourses containing the characteristics of folk song are included. It has also been determined that the word folk song was used as a tribute to the martyrs of Yemen, Sarıkamış and also Çanakkale. In addition, in this study, Ali Akbaş's connection to folk songs was determined by listing Turkish folk music maqams such as tatyan, müstezat, hoyrat, and compilers and performers such as Muzaffer Sarısözen, Nida Tüfekçi, Mükerrem Kemertaş, Neriman Altındağ and Nezahat Bayram.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1192676
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2723097
