Makale Başlığı: An Evaluation of the Debates of Deficiency and Surplus in the Mushaf from Mukatil and Jabiri Perspektive
Özet: Various slanders have been made about the Qur'an since the early years of Islam. In this article, it is discussed whether there are verses that have not been taken to Mushaf that are avai-lable today, or whether there are actually no revelations and the existence of phrases written in mushaf. In addition, this discussion has been evaluated on the example of Tafsir-u Mukatil b Suleiman (d. 150 A.D.), who has reached our days as the first complete tafsir, and the tafsir of Fehmu'l-Qur'an al-Hakim (d. 2010 A.H.), one of the modern tafsir. In particular, this study, which deals with how these claims owned by the orientalists  and the Gulat Shia currents are evaluated by two interpreters of the classical period and the modern period, also aims to guide the work to be done on the historical process of these claims. Within this framework, the appro-aches of both exegesis to the subject have been analyzed, the findings obtained have been analyzed and the information obtained has been analyzed. As a result, it has been seen that any discussion that there is a missing verse in Mushaf, which is accepted by the entire Islamic World especially today, was not included in an exegesis that was published during the tebeu't-tabiin period. This result shows the extent of the slander that has been revealed about Mushaf over time. However, it is noteworthy that the Garanik incident, which was especially owned by the orientalists but was not accepted and criticized by modern-day exegetes, is included in the Muqatil exegesis. This shows the difference between today's acceptances and the acceptances of the second century of Hijra.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammed Hayri ŞAHİN']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Kalemname
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kalemname/issue/70521/1074400
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2256769
