Makale Başlığı: The Investigation of the Relationship Between Post-Traumatic Stress Symptoms and Self-Compassion Levels and Emotional Schemas of Individuals During the Covid-19 Pandemic Process
Özet: It can be thought that one of the important psychological problems caused by the Covid-19 epidemic is post-traumatic stress disorder. The goal of this study is to investigate the connection between post-traumatic stress disorder symptoms and a person's level of emotional intelligence in the Covid-19 pandemic procedure. The research group of the study consists of 197 participants (Female=114, Male=83) determined by the appropriate sampling technique from individuals over the age of 18 who live in different cities in TURKIYE and are included in the Covid-19 pandemic mandatory quarantine application. Research data were collected through the online environment. Personal information form, Leahy Emotional Schema Scale-II, Self-Compassion Scale, Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Checklist were used to collect data. Independent t-test, multiple linear regression analysis, and Pearson correlation analysis were used in cases where the data were normally distributed, and Mann Whitney-U test and Kruskal Wallis-H test were used in cases where the data were not normally distributed. It has been determined that there are significant relationships between post-traumatic stress symptoms and emotional schema scores, between self-understanding scores and emotional schema scores, and between post-traumatic stress symptoms and self-understanding scores during the Covid-19 pandemic. It has been determined that emotional schema and self-understanding, among the variables included in the regression model, explain the post-traumatic stress symptoms at a level of 35%, and the emotional schema predicts the model at a significant level. Another result of the research is that the symptoms of post-traumatic stress differ significantly according to gender and occupation variables, but do not differ significantly according to socioeconomic income level. The research findings were compared with the literature and discussed, and necessary recommendations were summarized. The findings are believed to contribute to the programs for psychological assistance to be scheduled within the period following the pandemic.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hanife AYDIN', 'Serpil REİSOĞLU', 'Burak AYDIN']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Mavi Atlas
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gumusmaviatlas/issue/73222/1120360
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2443366
