Makale Başlığı: Periodontal treatment approach for dihydropyridine induced gingival overgrowth with or without drug substitution
Özet: Periodontal treatment approach for dihydropyridine induced gingival overgrowth with or without drug substitution Objectives: The aim of this study is to evaluate clinical effectiveness of nonsurgical periodontal treatment (NSPT) in patients with drug induced gingival overgrowth (DİGO) with or without drug substitution in comparison with patients presenting inflammatory GO. Material and Methods: A total of 17 patients with generalized GO were included in this clinical trial. Based on the medical physicians consultation, DIGO patients who continued to use dihydropyridine were allocated to the Group 1 (n=6), whereas patients whose drug substitution was carried out were allocated to the Group 2 (n=5). Group 3 (n=6) subjects had inflammatory GO. All study groups received NSPT for 4 sessions. At baseline and 6 weeks after NSPT, plaque index, gingival index, bleeding on probing (BOP), probing depth (PD) and, plaster model and photographic GO scores were measured. Results: NSPT resulted in significant decreases in periodontal clinical parameters  in all groups (p<0.05). Intergroup comparisons of baseline measurements revealed no statistically significant differences (p>0.05) except PD value which was higher in the Group 1 compared to the Group 2 (p<0.05). Comparisons of post-NSPT data among groups exhibited statistically significant difference only between Groups 1 and 2 in the model and photographic GO scores (p<0.05).Conclusions: After the 6-week evaluation period, NSPT was found to be an effective method in reducing the severity of inflammation and size of overgrown gingival tissues in patients with DIGO and inflamatory GO. Substitution of drug causing GO provided further contribution to NSPT regarding the size of overgrown gingiva in the patients with DIGO.
Yazar isimleri: ['Onur EROĞLU', 'Ece YETİŞ', 'Hafize ÖZTÜRK ÖZENER', 'Leyla KURU']
Yayın Yılı: 22 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: European Journal of Research in Dentistry
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/erd/issue/70464/1116604
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2427541
