Makale Başlığı: ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY IN PREVENTING VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN AND FEMICIDES IN THE LIGHT OF THE S.E. DECISION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL COURT
Özet: Violence against women is a social problem related to gender-based discrimination. Femicide reflects the extreme point this violence reaches. As violence against women and femicides are an important area of human rights violation in the context of law and public administration the state has an obligation, regulated in detail both in international conventions and in domestic law, to take protective/preventive measures. However, in some cases, there are incidents of violence against women resulting in femicide due to the lack of effective implementation of them. One of the events happened in this way is the murder of S.E. by the man she left on 15.12.2013. Having made the necessary applications for the identification of public personnel negligent in this murder, the family of the murdered woman were rejected. Upon the individual application submitted to the Constitutional Court, The General Assembly of the Constitutional Court decided that the right to live, guaranteed in Article 17 of the Constitution, had been violated through the process regarding the public officials in this femicide on 29.09.2021, in terms of protection and effective investigation obligation. With this decision, for the first time in Turkey, the obligation of the administration to effectively implement protective/preventive measures in a femicide came to the agenda of the high judiciary. In this study, the decision of the Constitutional Court that there was negligence of public officials in the murder of S.E. was discussed in the context of the administrative liability.
Yazar isimleri: ['Canan BUDAK']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Marmara Üniversitesi Kadın ve Toplumsal Cinsiyet Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mukatcad/issue/70747/1074764
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2258293
