Makale Başlığı: Cem Sultan from the eyes of sixteenth century tezkire authors
Özet: Cem Sultan, the youngest of the three sons of Mehmet the Conqueror, who had his name written in golden letters in Ottoman history and spent his time in worshiping his country with important soup kitchens besides conquering Istanbul, is a person who has improved himself by getting his education from the leading tulips and teachers of the period since he was a young age. While Cem Sultan was in the sanjak of Konya, he gained a literary circle around himself thanks to his structure that took care to bring people dealing with literature, such as treasurer and gunner. His interest in literature enabled him to grow up as a skilful poet. Because of this situation, XVI. There are also evaluations of the Sultan's poetry in the tazkiras of the 19th century. XVI. The common point of all tezkires in the 19th century is that the Sultan was talented and skilful in poetry. In the biographies of Âşık Çelebi, Kınalı-zâde Hasan Çelebi, Latîfî, Sehî Bey, and Beyani, the life story of the Sultan is not mentioned in the biographies of Künhü'l-ahbar, while his poetry is also mentioned as well as the life story of the Sultan. In the mentioned biographies, it is stated that Cem Sultan's struggle for the throne with Bâyezîd and that he was unsuccessful in this struggle. There is no Cem Sultan in Ahdi's biographies. In this article, XVI. Based on the 17th century biographies, evaluations were made about Cem Sultan. These evaluations are; It contains information such as the titles used about the sultan, how his reign was passed, his patronage, the focal element in the poem samples, the vocabulary used in the poet's biography, the feature of the sultan, the tradition and content of the given poem samples, the presentation style of the sultan's pseudonym, the order of transfer of information.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1193049
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2724616
