Makale Başlığı: Determination of Individual Innovation Perceptions of Students Studying Tourism at Undergraduate Level: The Case of Kastamonu University
Özet: Innovation is seen as the key point of progress and development and its value is increasing day by day. In recent years, the necessity of individual innovation has become even more noticeable in order for innovation to exist in businesses. The aim of this study is to determine the individual innovativeness perceptions of university students and to determine whet-her they differ according to demographic variables. For this purpose, a research was conducted for students studying at Kastamonu University Faculty of Tourism in the 2020-2021 academic year. In order to determine the individual innovativeness levels of the students, the “Individual Innovation Scale” was used. The internal consistency coefficient of the 20-item scale was calculated as 0.802. The universe of the study consists of 792 students. Convenience sampling method, one of the non-probability sampling methods, was used as the sampling method. In this context, 314 students participated in the research and formed the sample. In order to determine the validity and reliability of the scale with the SPSS statistical program, explanatory factor analysis was applied to the data collected in a 5-point Likert type. In order to test the hypotheses, independent samples t-test and one-way ANOVA analyzes were performed. In addition, frequency analysis was applied to obtain statistical data on demographic characteristics. As a result of the analyzes, it was determined that the individual innovativeness perceptions of the participants differ according to their gender, the department they study, the income status of their families and their age.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 25 Eylül 2021
Dergi ismi: Kesit Akademi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kesitakademi/issue/65705/1019276
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2064327
