Makale Başlığı: A study on the literary works called “The Scent of Hyacinth” and The Scent of Wood in the context of scent
Özet: Human beings perceive the environment where they live thanks to five basic senses listed as seeing, hearing, smelling, touching and tasting. They hold onto life thanks to the information provided through these senses. The impact of each of these senses is not equally weighted. Although the senses of seeing and hearing are often more prominent in the daily life, the sense of smell has the privileges such as being the first sense developing in humans and directly leaving a mark on the brain. Facing a number of scents from the day the human beings are born, they retain these scents in the scent memory of their brains. When a scent which has already left a mark in the memory is sensed, the revival of the memories regarding that scent is known as “Proust Phenomenon”.Being exposed to good and bad scents in their daily lives, people’s feelings and reactions to such scents differ from one another. This study has been conducted in an effort to review the story “The Scent of Hyacinth” (1918) by Ahmet Hikmet Müftüoğlu and the novel The Scent of Wood (1928) by Aka Gündüz through discussion in the context of scent. In fine arts, there almost exists a consensus on the fact that the senses of seeing and hearing come to the forefront, and these senses have been studied more. This study aims at providing a minor contribution to literary reviews on the sense of smell. The reason why these two literary works have been selected for this study is that each one sets an example to the good and bad memories revived by means of scents. In the story “The Scent of Hyacinth”, scent evokes good memories, and causes the spiritual awakening of the character. In the novel The Scent of Wood, although scent revives bad memories, it enables the female character to tell her own story by means of internal reckoning.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1192651
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2723007
