Makale Başlığı: A Limitating Registration Term In The Qur’an: Allah’s  Permission
Özet: The Qur’an regulates people’s relations with Allah, other people, and society and also explains many issues that offer them the way to reach happiness in this world and the afterlife. While the issues emphasized in the verses are sometimes discussed in main lines and general terms, details are highlighted, and exceptional situations are mentioned. This situation, which differential, may be related to the importance of the relevant issue in terms of the main topics of the Qur’an, as well as considers the claims and false beliefs of the addressees. This situation, which is related to the fundamental goals of the Qur’an, is effective in the subject of the issue in the verses.Almighty Allah mentions exceptional situations and particular expressions in some matters that He has declared in His divine revelation. It is seen that some words come to the fore in mentioned expression. One of those mentioned expressions is "permission, willing" by attributing it to Allah. Allah declares his permission in some matters as an expression of record and orders this subject should be evaluated only with this limiting wording. This situation can sometimes be related to an issue associated with the wrong beliefs of the interlocutors. Sometimes, it is seen that this word is mentioned in relation to a subject that is valued in terms of sound religious understanding. It is clear that the prophet has an important position. In this regard, the belief that the prophet was sent by Allah has great importance of religious perception. It is sensitively emphasized that the prophet was sent only with the permission of Allah in the verses. The expressions of Allah’s permission draw attention in the verses about the transmission of Allah’s revelation to the prophet and the choice of the prophet. In particular, the addressee’s miracle requests from Prophet Mohammed are also mentioned in the verses. It is stated that only Allah’s permission is the determining factor for miracles. The issue of the acceptance and realization of religion by the addressees is among the prominent issues in the Qur’an. The fact that people can have different choices in terms of both faith and deeds, and that no one will be forced in this regard is paid attention in the verses. It is stated that it is possible only by Allah’s permission in these aforementioned verses. It is known that the Qur’an emphasizes that only Allah has the power to make absolute judgments about halal and haram. In this regard, it is stressed that it is based on Allah’s permission. The superstitious beliefs of people that the beings they associate with Allah will be their intercessors are also mentioned in the verses. It is declared that the perception mentioned above is a great mistake and that Allah’s permission for intercession is decisive. The issues of misfortune, damage and war are among the subjects declared by Allah, with the permission of Allah. While declaring that a calamity or damaging situation can only happen with Allah’s permission, it points to Allah’s supreme will and all-inclusive power. In the study, the verses in which the expression of permission attributing to Allah are mentioned. The value and importance of exceptional cases in the general meaning network of the Qur’an are mentioned in the verses. Different interpretations in tafsir sources are emphasized by pointing out the various meanings of the word permission. The backgrounds of these interpretations, which vary in the history of Islamic thought, are mentioned. It is hoped that the study will be guiding in terms of declaring the language pattern of the Qur’an that directs the beliefs and perceptions of the interlocutors, limits, and prevents them from deviating from wrong and superstitious ways. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşe Betül ORUÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Marife Dini Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: http://marife.org/tr/pub/issue/71001/1103588
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2374754
