Makale Başlığı: A RESERVE FORCE ON THE WESTERN FRONT IN THE TURKISH WAR OF INDEPENDENCE: ASSEMBLY GUARD BATTALION (1920-1923)
Özet: By the end of 1918, when the Turkish National Struggle began, there was a military resistance, as well as many organizations in a political sense. While these organizations could make military decisions to organize the National Struggle, they also managed this struggle in a political sense. One of them was the representative committee (Heyet-i Temsiliye) established at the Erzurum Congress. On December 27, 1919, the representative committee that came to Ankara with Mustafa Kemal Pasha carried out its works from here. During this time, Istanbul was occupied by the Entente Forces and the Ottoman Assembly was disbanded. The Grand National Assembly was opened on April 23, 1920, for this reason. Mustafa Kemal Pasha, the leader of the National Struggle, was elected for the speakership of the Assembly. After Mustafa Kemal Pasha became the speaker of the assembly, Lieutenant Ismail Hakkı came to him from Ardahan as a companion officer. Lieutenant First Lieutenant İsmail Hakkı had established the guard battalion of the Grand National Assembly on July 18, 1920, by the order of Mustafa Kemal Pasha. After this battalion was formed, sometimes it served to protect the Assembly and Mustafa Kemal Pasha in Ankara, and sometimes it participated in battles on the Western Front as a reserve force without hesitating to go any front. In this study, the activities of the Assembly Guard Battalion, the first protection battalion of the Grand National Assembly which was opened on April 23, 1920, after the Turkish War of Independence began, on the Western Front were discussed. The main sources of the study in question are the documents obtained from the Archives of the Ministry of National Defense.  In addition, various studies in the literature were also used. The documents and information in question were analyzed by qualitative and quantitati methods and the study was put forward.
Yazar isimleri: ['Güzin ÇAYKIRAN']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Atatürk Yolu Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ankuayd/issue/72712/1132826
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2495087
