Makale Başlığı: Editorial
Özet: Dear Reader,The ELT Research Journal draws upon a range of research articles addressing language learning and teaching, methodology and teacher training. Volume 11 Issue 1 of the ELT Research Journal has been published. The five contributions in this issue address a number of issues in the field of English Language Teaching. The first article investigates the correspondence between students’ grammar achievement and type and frequency of errors and finds that errors are indicators of learning. The second paper presents a multimedia learning environment and investigates the effects of redundant on-screen text, learner control and self-regulatory skills on students learning. The third study presents an analysis of ELT coursebooks with regard to the role of English as Lingua Franca.  The fourth study presents a systematic review of graduate studies between 2013 and 2021 on flipped learning in English language learning in Turkey.  The last study of the issue aims to explore student perceptions about peer feedback in writing. I would like to thank all the researchers who have contributed to the current issue of the journal with their invaluable academic works. I would also like to thank all editors, co-editors and reviewers of the ELT-RJ for their voluntary contribution to the journal by managing the review process.We are extremely pleased that the editors of our journal - Prof. Dr. Gonca Yangın Ekşi, Gazi University’s Department of English Language Education and Prof. Dr. Meltem Huri Baturay, Atılım University’s School of Foreign Languages - have spent great effort and energy in the preparation of the journal for publication. Here I also would like to express my special thanks to the team members of the journal - co-editor, Orçin Karadağ, who follow the review process and design the website and electronic publication of our journal, Language Editor Sezen Balaban, (APA) Editor, Ömer Gökhan Ulum, the editorial board members, reviewers, and finally we would like to express our gratitude to all the contributors who create the essence of this journal with their precious work.We are also very grateful to you for your joining us as readers in this issue and hope you will also be one of the contributors in the next issues.Prof. Dr. Dinçay KÖKSALEditor-in-Chief Prof. Dr. Gonca YANGIN EKŞİAssociate EditorProf. Dr. Meltem Huri BATURAYAssociate Editor
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: ELT Research Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/eltrj/issue/71009/1138821
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2518809
