Makale Başlığı: Determination of Aluminum Accumulation and Heavy Metal Content of Some Tea Produced in Eastern Black Sea Region
Özet: Tea (Camellia sinensis) is one of the most popular beverages all over the World. Aluminum (Al) intake from natural foods like tea and those containing aluminum compound used as food additives represents the major route of aluminum exposure for the general public. The aim of this research was to determine content of total and infused Al and potentially toxic heavy metal (Pb, Cr, Co, Ni and Cd) content of some tea brands and varieties widely produced in the Eastern Black Sea region. For this purpose, 54 different black tea samples were collected. Total aluminum contents and potentially toxic heavy metals were determined in the wet-burning solution with nitric-perchloric acid. Total contents of Aluminum and heavy metals were digest with nitric-percloric acid mix and concentrations of mineral contents and total were determined in the obtained clear solutions using ICP-MS. Infusion; 40 ml of hot distilled water was added to 1 g ground black tea particles (20 min) and then filtered to obtain the clear solution for further processing. As a result: total aluminum contents in the black tea samples were between normal level. But unfortunately the solubility of aluminum in both infusion extracts very high value or toxic level (> 0.2 ppm) according to WHO/EU references values. It was noted that tea samples brewed in hot water may be finely ground (such as teabag teas), which may also be rapid and large amounts of infusion agents. The ratio of Al in total aluminum to infusions ranged from 1.56 to 1.16%. On the other hand, it is another possibility that the tea samples used in the research are harvest products of the old leaves because the old tea leaves accumulate more amount of Al than the young leaves. It was concluded that health authorities should evaluate the possible effect of high aluminum level on human consumption in tea consumption through long-term studies in terms of health. It was concluded that the dangerous limit value for health was not exceeded in terms of other potentially toxic heavy metals (Cd, Pb, Co, Ni, Cr) in tea plant samples.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nesrin YILDIZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Ordu Üniversitesi Bilim ve Teknoloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ordubtd/issue/70313/1081130
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2283048
