Makale Başlığı: Facilitators and Barriers to Healthcare  Professionals’ Adoption of Tele-Health Interventions
Özet: This systematic review aimed to determine the factors of facilitators and barriers in the adoption of healthcare interventions offered through telehealth interventions by health personnel. Literature search on the subject was conducted between March 01 and May 01, 2021, in PubMed, Cochrane, Science Direct, Web of Science, ProQuest Central, and Google Scholar databases. The inclusion and exclusion criteria of the study were determined in accordance with Population, Intervention, Comparison, Outcomes and Study (PICOS) and only studies published in peer-reviewed journals and whose full text was accessible were included in the systematic review. “A revised Cochrane risk-of-bias tool for randomized trials (RoB 2)” and “Bias Risk Assessment Tool- Cross-sectional Studies (BiRAT-CS)” were used in the bias risk assessment of the studies. Since there are differences between studies, narrative synthesis was used. Nine articles were included in the study. The total number of participants in the studies reviewed was 1398, and the majority of them were nurses (n=1133). The first 4 facilitator factors were most emphasized in the adoption of telehealth interventions by healthcare personnel. It has been seen that it facilitates patient follow-up, provides continuous education opportunities, positively affects the performance of health personnel, and provides technological progress. As a barrier factor, inadequacy of financial support was mostly encountered, followed by technical problems in the use of the intervention and the personal differences of the people who use the intervention. In 9 studies reviewed, health personnel's satisfaction levels in telehealth intervention use cases were measured and evaluated as high in 6 studies. The increase in the number of related studies is important in order to ensure parallelism with technological advances.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşegül KARACA', 'Özlem ÖRSAL', 'Pınar DURU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Nursology
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jnursology/issue/72821/1182646
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2681601
