Makale Başlığı: Information Management in Turkey’s National Science and Technology Policies and A Model Proposal
Özet: The use of information as a power in the development of a country depends on the integration of information management, which makes information accessible and usable, with national policies and its central positioning in policies. This study aims to investigate the perception and approach towards information management in national science and technology policies during Turkey's  Republican Period (1923 and after). It also proposes a model for an effective information management policy integrated with national science and technology policies. This study employed a two-stage procedure to analyze the perception and approach to information management in the national science and technology policies: (1) literature review and (2) content analysis. Later, a model was developed that positions information management within national science and technology policies. Two hundred and eighteen (218) national policy documents directly related to information management in the Republican Period were identified and examined as data sources. Findings from the study were used to develop an effective information management policy model integrated with national science-technology policies. The results have revealed the increasing awareness related to the importance of information, but the perception of information management is very low in Turkey's Republican Era science and technology policies.  Insight into the necessity of an effective information management policy integrated with national science and technology policies is quite insufficient. This lack of insight creates a disconnection between policy areas related to sub-processes of information management, causes unbalanced development of policy areas related to these sub-processes, associating these areas with other policy areas, and confusion in institutional/inter-institutional authority and responsibilities. The general information management approach in policies required is: R&D and innovation practices, planning information access services in line with information and communication technologies, and information infrastructure and information systems development. The "Information Management Strategy Development and Implementation Model in the Context of National Science and Technology Policies" presented within the study shows originality, because it offers a holistic perspective on developing a national information management strategy. Although this model is national, it provides an outlook and insight for other countries. The methodology used in this study is original in that it can operate in information policy analysis. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Selda EKİCİ', 'Bülent YILMAZ, PH.D.']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Bilgi Yönetimi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/by/issue/69559/1012906
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2039171
