Makale Başlığı: Antibacterial Activity of Ethanol Leaf Extract of Sida acuta Against Some Clinical Bacterial Isolates
Özet: Persistent evolution of multidrug resistance bacteria due to inappropriate use of conventional antibiotics is undermining treatment intervention for infectious diseases, thus constituting substantial proportion of the global public health problem. This, necessitated the search and development of new drugs particularly from plant origin that are effective against such superbugs. Therefore, the present study was designed to determine the phytochemical constituents in Sida acuta and their antibacterial effects on pathogenic bacterial species of Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Bacillus subtilis. The phytochemical components of the extract were identified using standard methods. Furthermore, the antibacterial activity of the leaf extract against the bacterial pathogens were assessed using agar well diffusion and broth dilution method, at varying concentrations of the extract (37.50, 75, 150 and 300 mg/ml), and using Commercially obtained ciprofloxacin as control. Preliminary screening revealed that ethanolic leaf extract possesses many secondary metabolites such as alkaloids, flavonoids, phenol, tannins, terpenoids, glycosides and cardiac glycosides. The extract exhibited significant inhibitory effects at (p<0.05) against the reference isolates of bacteria. The highest antibacterial activity was exhibited by the highest concentration of the extract (300mg/ml). The minimum inhibitory concentrations (MIC) and minimum bactericidal concentrations (MBC) of ethanol crude extract of Sida acuta was found to be 37.5 and 75mg/ml respectively against all the reference isolates of tested bacteria. The observed antibacterial activity revealed that Sida acuta could be used for the treatment of tested bacterial infections.
Yazar isimleri: ['Maimuna HASSAN', 'Fatima M. MUSA', 'Firdausi ALİYU', 'Aliyu ADAMU']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Life Sciences and Biotechnology
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ijlsb/issue/68678/1115771
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2424251
