Makale Başlığı: ANALYSIS AND EVALUATION OF THE LOGISTICS POTENTIAL OF THE CANAL ISTANBUL WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE SUEZ AND PANAMA CANAL
Özet: International trade is one of the most important factors in the realization of growth and development in terms of countries. Logistics activities are decisive in the uninterrupted realization and success of global trade. Transportation activities have an important place in logistics activities. 85% of the transportation activity, which has an important place in international trade, is carried out by sea. The most important routes of the seaway, which has a great share in the connection of countries and trade activities, are the canals and straits, which are described as artificial and natural waterways. Artificial water canals are generally man-made roads with the aim of saving distance, time and logistical costs. Artificial water canals built for this purpose make a significant contribution to world trade. Artificial water canals provide many advantages in terms of reducing transportation costs, shortening supply times and providing energy efficiency. In addition, artificial water channels provide serious income to the countries within their borders. Countries that use maritime transportation effectively and have geopolitical importance due to their location have a say in global trade. Turkey is in an advantageous position thanks to the seas, straits and ports it has. In this study, two artificial water channels, Suez and Panama canals, which have a great place in global trade, were examined in the light of data. In addition to these data, the logistics potential of Kanal Istanbul has been evaluated by considering the current Istanbul Bosphorus statistics.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammed TURĞUT', 'Çağatay KONBUL']
Yayın Yılı: 2 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: IBAD Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ibad/issue/64491/1095417
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2340670
