Makale Başlığı: Quae visa vera, quae non veriora: An Essay on the Poetics of Monumentality
Özet: Monumentality as a popular expression of the bigness or smallness of things is inescapably embedded in the material world. Th e word is associated to and in many ways derived from monument or monumenta that commonly describes grandiosity, showiness, and durability. While these physical qualities will always retain their cogency, recent interest in the concept of monumentality in architecture is opening up a wider variety of meanings that expand our horizons. In classical architecture monumentality is often paired with the orders, with their inherent or given austerity, auctoritas, and dignity. Orders are dignifi ed because they are used for temples, and they are used for temples because they are dignifi ed. More universal are considerations of design and setting—where and how a building is placed and how eff ective is its placement in assuming and projecting the qualities of nature. A sense of durability is also embedded in and expressed through materials, particularly stone whose hardness, strength and heaviness represent and embody the perceived qualities of a monument. As underlined by scholars, a monument refl ects and projects visibility—physical, social, and political. Girdling a building in historical narratives derived from the past, such as Edwin Lutyen’s Tiepval First World War monument at Somme, France, ensures its investment in the meaning and power of the past. Commemorative values add to the feeling of monumentality. Closer to our time, with their ‘archaic’ simplicity, timeless and immeasurable qualities, the late American architect Louis Kahn has captured the embodiment of monumentality in many of his works. To these expanding concepts of architectural monumentality, I would like to add some thoughts starting with the notion of design and construction, considering especially on the intrinsic qualities hidden in the object and those that rely on the viewer’s knowledge of the essentials and processes of construction. I see monumentality, or the quality of being a monument, in the daring, the skill, and the sheer eff ort that have gone into the creation of a building or structure, such as the great dome of Hagia Sophia in Istanbul or the Severan bridge at Kahta in eastern Anatolia—in the heroic quality achieved by heroic eff ort these monuments represent. In other words, I want to explore a kind of monumentality infused in simplicity and silence, one that is more dependent on what you do not see for its truth than what you do, but do not fully understand: Quae visa vera, quae non veriora, what one might call a poetic notion of monumentality. 
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 25 Mayıs 2022
Dergi ismi: Seleucia
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/seleucia/issue/70519/1135681
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2506754
