Makale Başlığı: BURIAL CULTURE AND SPATIAL DEVIATION IN THE CONTEXT OF DEATH PERCEPTION: DEAD EXHIBITION OF MUSEUMS
Özet: The biggest concern of people/society trying to make their existence permanent on earth is extinction. The time that continues in his absence offers life to new beings while being a grave to the previous ones. The paradox of the human being, who wants to change or even completely abolish the "law of death", which nature tries to reduce its temperament to a law and restrict it to its own definition, is exactly here. Despite all these delusions, societies design the space by promising return and immortality after returning. Although the funeral rituals shaped in the determinant of cultures differ between societies, what is unchangeable in all of them is the existence of the burial culture. In the study, which deals with the the relationship between burial culture and space, which changed with the interaction of civilizations in the historical process, the sharp change that took place with the nineteenth century was examined. The places where this change is observed have been the city museums equipped with the power of representation in the modernization process. The modern museum culture imported from Europe has brought with it the understanding of exploitation. However, this time, the exploited were not the objects belonging to the dead in the graves, but the dead bodies themselves, and it became legitimate to exhibit them in modern transparent museums with the discourse of the protection of history. Objectification of even the dead, which is taboo in societies that try to stay in balance by putting one foot of their existence on modernization and the other on universality, implies that nothing can escape from being the subject of exploitation. The price that the societies of the modern age, where the border line has been erased, are willing to endure, is the disappearance of the tradition that gave birth to and sustains their civilizations.
Yazar isimleri: ['Emine KEF']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/deusosbil/issue/72824/1083486
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2292614
