Makale Başlığı: THE ROLE OF AUTHENTIC LEADERSHIP BEHAVIORS IN HIGHER EDUCATION ON STUDENTS' SCHOOL ENGAGEMENT
Özet: Leadership is an important process and phenomenon seeming involved in school performance. When considering that the expectations of individuals or institutions from school are increasing day by day, different leadership approaches also become the main topic of the conversation. One of those leadership approaches is authentic leadership. Authentic leadership is a current leadership approach which ensures to increase the value given to human resources and to acquire positive outcomes in institutions. In this research, according views of students, it has been aimed to reveal the relationship between authentic leadership of instructors and school engagement of students. The study has been formatted with a scale-based correlational design. The students in Şırnak University constitutes the universe of this study. And also, the sample of the study has been comprised of 193 randomly selected students from Şırnak University. Authentic Leadership Scale has been utilized in order to specify the authentic leadership levels of instructors, “University Student Engagement Inventory” so as to specify the school commitment of students. The data acquired in this study have been analyzed by means of SPSS programme. Reliability analysis, descriptive statistics, correlation, regression and multiple regression analyzes have been implemented to the research data. Positive relationships have been found between authentic leadership and its sub-dimensions and school engagement and sub-dimensions. Regression analysis results have revealed that authentic leadership and relational transparency subdimension can meaningfully predict the school engagement. It has been ascertained that authentic leadership's internalized moral perspective, balanced processing, and self-awareness sub-dimensions could not significantly predict school engagement. Some suggestions appropriate for acquired data in study have been developed.
Yazar isimleri: ['Selçuk DEMİR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Siirt Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/susbid/issue/70419/1100277
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2361131
