Makale Başlığı: The Birth of Modern Art: Flaneur and Actor-Painter Manet
Özet: Like every revolution, the effect of the Industrial Revolution on production and economic relations brought about important changes in the social and social field; has led to the emergence of the city concept where common life is shared. The developments in this early period of modern, new urban life affected people's feelings and thoughts, created the perception of urban people and created urban people profiles. One of these is the 'Flaneur', an urban human profile first encountered in Charles Baudelaire's book 'The Painter of Modern Life'. According to Baudelaire, Flaneur is a modern urban hero who wanders even the farthest corners of the modern city, hides/veils by taking advantage of the crowds and the chaos of the city, empathizes with the urban people concealed by the crowds, disguises them, imitates them, but does not allow his own self to melt among them. Flaneur is a traveler, a wanderer who integrates with the city and blends into its fabric, rather than the task of a journalist looking for news and wandering around to find it. Continuing his life as a city traveler, flaneur, Manet recorded the modern changes in the streets of Paris and the lives of its inhabitants. It seems to have been possible by discovering that painting is actually an actor, in the figure of the flaneur that Manet takes on. This is the meaning of the established unshakable judgment that Manet is the father of modern art. This also explains why the 20th century aesthetics differed from its predecessor with such a sharp distinction. Artists are no longer focusing on the final work, but increasingly on the creative act.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ceylan Pınar GENÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Kaygı. Bursa Uludağ Üniversitesi Fen-Edebiyat Fakültesi Felsefe Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kaygi/issue/72626/1125355
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2463828
