Makale Başlığı: Tactical Combat Casualty Care in the Light of Current Information
Özet: Tactical Combat Casualty Care is a medical intervention that was first addressed in 1996 and differed significantly from civilian medical response algorithms. The fact that it is done in armed conflict areas makes this algorithm changes necessary. Both the war environment with the limitations in local facilities and the possible problems in evacuation has taken out possible treatment options from civilian injury algorithms. Tactical Combat Casualty Care Algorithms were updated at 1996, 2003, and 2015-2021. These updates, organized in the light of the data obtained from the Vietnam, Iraq and Afghanistan Wars, are announced by training the personnel in the field. It has been shown that many deaths under conflict could be prevented by applying these algorithms. In our country where military hospitals are no longer active, the number of military physicians is not at the desired number. Although it is supported by civilian health personnel, the rate of benefiting from them in warfare areas is limited. The legal and administrative gap related to the medical interventions of non-healthcare personnel was eliminated with the "Regulation on Emergency Medical Interventions Authorized by Non-Healthcare Personnel to Perform in the Absence of Health Personnel" published in the Official Gazette dated 22.03.2016 and numbered 29661. "Tactical Combat Casualty Care" training of these personnel will be the most important factor in reducing the risk of death in the conflict area. In addition, developments and advances in Military Damage Control Resuscitation medical drugs and supplies will play an even more effective role in reducing the incidence of death after injury.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ecem KALEMOGLU', 'Murat KALEMOGLU']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Hitit Medical Journal
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/hititmedj/issue/73245/1099875
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2359328
