Makale Başlığı: 19TH MAY, COMMEMORATION OF ATATÜRK, YOUTH AND SPORTS DAY CEREMONIES IN ATATÜRK ERA: SAMPLE OF ADANA
Özet: Adana is a city which is located in the center of Çukurova region. Adana, which has a strategic location, also has rich cultural diversity. As a result of Armistice of Moudros, which was signed between Ottoman Empire and the Allied states on 30th October, 1918, a large part of Adana’s territory was occupied. Çukurova was also among the first occupied regions. Local people resisted the occupation. During the resistance, they were supported by Mustafa Kemal and Grand National Assembly. Thus, a spiritual relationship was formed between Atatürk, the leader and the founder of the state, and the local people. Consequently, the independence was adopted by the Turkish people after the founder of the new state set foot in Samsun in 19th May, 1919. Previously, that special day was regularly celebrated as “Veteran’s Day” in Samsun. Later on, it was combined with gymnastics events. That special day, which was formalized as Turkish youth’s sports day between the years 1935-1938, began to be celebrated across the nation. Local people showed great interest to the 19th May celebrations that began to be celebrated in Adana when Atatürk was alive. Sports and gymnastics events, performed at the city stadium, turned into festival. In those celebrations, colourful demonstrations were performed with the broad participation of students. Those celebrations, which were led to a combination between the state and public, were followed closely by the Adana press. The Adana press kept the people posted about latest news. Finally, let it be known that, when someone asked Atatürk’s date of birth, he used to reply “19th May”.
Yazar isimleri: ['Oğuz KALAFAT']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Siirt Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/susbid/issue/70419/1060225
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2201585
