Makale Başlığı: Analysis of Occupational Accidents at Different Sectors with Latin Square Design
Özet: Within the increase of production, growth and technological developments related directly with increase in world population, demand for both fossil and renewable energy sources such as oil, coal, natural gas, nuclear and hydraulics is also increasing. Considering coal reserve values, it’s predicted that technological developments in global coal production and consumption will continue. Although coal-based electricity production has decreased in Turkey according to the precautions taken in line with greenhouse gas emissions, it’s expected to comply with trend of increase in energy supply around the world. Due to its economic worth and nature of the production process, mining is the most risky sector. On a European basis, observed that 59% of the mining sector deaths occurred in Turkey.In this study, the dimensions of occupational accidents that occurred for 17 different European countries at agriculture, production, construction, mining and other sectors were analyzed between 2009 and 2019. by using ILOSTAT data. Turkey has been the country with the highest loss in all sectors except agriculture. Considering the risk of occupational accidents, Turkey, Germany, Czech Republic, and Poland data, that have coal production were analyzed statistically with Latin Square Design layout using year, country and sector variables, by using General Linear Model. Single and binary interactions of variables (p<0.05) were found as significant by ANOVA. While the most significant variable is country; R2 R2Adj and R2Pred of model were calculated as 99.1%, 97.9% and 95.2%, respectively. Statistically, trisk of casualty decreases as Turkey, Germany, Poland and Czech Republic on country basis.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatma ÇİÇEK', 'Ayça ATA', 'Bikem ÖVEZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: International Journal of Advances in Engineering and Pure Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jeps/issue/72838/1064285
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2217797
