Makale Başlığı: An Example to Use of Literary Works in Values Education: Research in terms of the Values that included in the book of “What Men Live By?” by L. N. Tolstoy
Özet: Due to the many problems that arise today, it is necessary to take precautions together. This has made the value education in schools, which are the institutive area of enculturation and becoming coherent to social life, obligatory. Because regulating the relations between people, moving forward in relations in the society and intercommunal are only possible with an education that contains values. Literary works are important sources in values education and literary works are advisors for the constitution of values. Moreover, the competent and distinguished works that are characterized as “the classics” are significant tools to educate and inform people, to open a new window into what is going on in the world and into the emotions of different cultures. Consequently in this research, the value. As the main aim of this research is to determine the values in the literary work of “What Men Live By?”.  Through the aim, the topic of this work causes and poses some questions, such as “What kind of values are included in the work of What Men Live By?”. In this article, four narrations are analyzed with their contents and themes in terms of qualitative research approach document review. Additionally, through this four narrations which are chosen from the work of “What Men Live By?”, includes eighteen values in total. These values may listed as love, family unity, neighborliness, generosity, happiness, tolerance, goodness, diligence, sharing, savings, compassion, religious values, peace, citizenship, truth/honesty. Since these values are admitted and interiorized in our country, it is clear that this literary work, named “What Men Live By?”, can be benefical for values education.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 30 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Sosyal Bilgiler Eğitimi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tissejournal/issue/71197/1144276
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2540253
