Makale Başlığı: MUSIC IN THE POETRY, ORIENTALISM AND THE IDENTITY OF SECRET MUSIC IN YAHYA KEMAL'S POEMS
Özet: The effort to express the rhythm and harmony elements in poetry through music has been accepted as an indispensable subject for the art of poetry throughout the history of literature. The harmony in the way the poet expresses his feelings creates a composition by combining elements such as some ups and downs, rises and falls, transitions or expansions, as in music. The idea that this match to a tune constitutes the assumption of this study. The idea that melody or rhythm is not only related to sounds but also meaning has been adopted. In order to express this melody with notes like a music, a sample application experiment was made based on the idea that it would be possible to determine the structures related to meaning and make the melody visible. Yahya Kemal is a noteworthy artist who focuses on the subject of harmony in Turkish poetry. With the idea of "inner harmony", the poet makes not only the external elements of the poem, but also its meaning the subject of harmony. The meaning attributed to the concept of "inner harmony" by him and the concept used by Abbe Bremond were compared, and it was concluded that the two poets did not talk about a fully overlapping harmony. It has been seen that the most obvious difference is related to mystical feeling. In order to make an evaluation on how this difference is reflected in Yahya Kemal's poetry, the identity of the harmony in the poems has been tried to be revealed. The answer to the following question is tried to be found in this study: If the inner harmony of Yahya Kemal's poetry could be expressed with musical notes, what kind of music would characterise the hidden melody in the poems of Kendi Gök Kubbemiz (Our Own Sky Dome)? It is asserted that the artist established a connection between Western and Turkish music and examined if it was based on a Western composition style. This study also evaluates whether the poet’s approach to Eastern culture includes Western-influenced orientalist effects. Results indicate that the movement, swing, flow and distribution of melodies that are felt in the poetry can neither be explained by the makam form of Turkish music nor the symphonic polyphony of Western music. It is tried to be proved that the poet established an organic connection between the two types of music and was heavily influenced by Turkish music.
Yazar isimleri: ['Refika ALTIKULAÇ DEMİRDAĞ']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Çukurova Üniversitesi Türkoloji Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cutad/issue/70298/1004581
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2009286
