Makale Başlığı: The Power of Science and Truth Engineering in Aldous Huxley’s Brave New World
Özet: The last two hundred years have witnessed the existence of science as a force representing the truth, through its ability to evolve the perception in society and capacity to turn the relations it has established with other authorities in its favour. In this period, science has become an indirect power that imposes itself. This indirectness is due to the fact that science as an ideology has besieged the political power which organises the social structure. From this point of view, it can be said that science is the leading side in its relation with the political power, which has a reflexive and continuous course. Science, which is the source of knowledge and which can shape the truth, draws its authority not only from its studies and relations with other powers, but also from the perception it creates concerning the truth. In this respect, it is an organising, a facilitating but at the same time a frightening power that has the potential to disrupt human nature. Aldous Huxley, one of the leading writers of the 20th century English literature, drew attention to this aspect of science and stated that these studies could turn into a great threat for mankind when they got out of control. Brave New World is Huxley’s best-known work in which he warns his readers against that possible danger. The novel, which entirely depicts a society designed in scientific processes, describes the fact that individuals are condemned to artificiality by being reduced to a project object on the way to bring prosperity and happiness to humanity. This study questions the relationship between science, power and truth in Brave New World and argues that it is not the science instrumentalised by the political power but the science itself that encompasses that power in determining the running of the dystopian order described in the novel, On the other hand, it aims to show how science, in its indirect power, nullifies the alternatives and builds its own truth, depending on its monopolisation of truth. In this context, in the futuristic world of the novel in which science has been absolutised, it is emphasized that every form of life, including human, is projected and argued that the truth is also subjected to a similar process that can be called as “truth engineering”. 
Yazar isimleri: ['Mümin HAKKIOĞLU']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Mavi Atlas
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gumusmaviatlas/issue/73222/1175890
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2653175
