Makale Başlığı: The Effect of Different Drying Methods Applied to Mint Plant on Drying Kinetics and Quality Characteristics
Özet: Mint is one of the medicinal and aromatic plants of commercial importance. Mint, which is used abundantly (in salads, meals, and pickles) in our country, is also used as tea. Mint plant is consumed both fresh and dry. However, it cannot be stored as fresh for a long time without losing their chemical, physical and nutritional properties. For this reason, it is important to dry the mint plant, which is used in many areas. In this study, we aimed to determine the most suitable drying method in terms of color criteria and drying kinetics of the medicinal and aromatic plant mint leaves after drying in hot air dryers (oven and air conditioning device) and in the natural environment (sun and shade). According to the average drying times, it was determined that the shortest drying time was 3.5 hours with the sun drying method, and the longest drying time was 81.5 hours with the shade drying method. The moisture content per unit time away from the product was used in thin-layer drying equations, and the mathematical model that best predicted the drying curves was determined. Lewis, Wang Sing, and Page equations were used in the modeling. The coefficient of determination (p<0.05) for all models was found to be appropriate. Among the determined coefficient of stability (R2) values, the highest value was found to be 0.9996 in the sun drying method of the Page model. The lowest R2 value was found to be 0.8614 in the shade drying method of the Wang Sing model. In terms of color criteria, the method that best preserves the properties of fresh mint was determined in the air conditioner at 50ºC and 50% relative humudity conditions. In terms of chemical properties (Amount of water-soluble dry matter, pH, and titratable acidity), it was found that the oven drying method at 45 ºC was more suitable.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hakan POLATCI', 'Burcu AKSÜT']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Nisan 2022
Dergi ismi: Tarım Makinaları Bilimi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tarmak/issue/69558/1005256
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2011746
