Makale Başlığı: Applicability of Online Physiotherapy Counseling from the Perspective of Physiotherapist and Clients
Özet: Objective: This study was planned to investigate the feasibility of online physiotherapy consultancy, which has come to the fore with the increase in e-service applications in different areas of health services and likely to ocur in the future, from the eyes of physiotherapists and clients, and to reveal the views and perceptions of physiotherapists and clients on this subject.Material and Method: The study was carried out with a total of 500 participants, 266 physiotherapists and 234 clients. In order to get the opinions of individuals about online physiotherapy counseling, 13 questions were asked to physiotherapists and 11 questions to clients individuals via the online questionnaire. The results of the study were expressed as percentages and categorical variables were compared.Results: The areas where physiotherapists believe online physiotherapy counseling will provide the most benefit were; Home Exercise Program Follow-up (92.6%) and Family Education (81.2%) while the areas they believe will provide the least benefit were Oncological Rehabilitation (27.8%), Hand Rehabilitation (28.2%) and Neurological Rehabilitation (28.6%), respectively. The view that physiotherapists agreed with the highest rate was that online physiotherapy counseling could be used in preventive health practices in monitoring the effective implementation of the home program (88.0%). The opinion that the clients agreed with the highest rate was that online physiotherapy counseling provided ease of access when there was difficulty in accessing a face-to-face appointment (94.0%). Additionally, the clients gave an answer of “I agree with more than 80%” to each of the questions asked, and it was seen that the majority of the participants (over 62%) had “good” internet usage skills (p<0.05).Conclusion: The opinions of the physiotherapists and clients participating in the study about online physiotherapy counseling are generally positive. It is thought that online physiotherapy counseling can be a promising physiotherapy approach in terms of being an alternative to face-to-face physiotherapy service.
Yazar isimleri: ['Şeyda YÜCEER', 'Hilal KEKLİCEK']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Mayıs 2022
Dergi ismi: İzmir Katip Çelebi Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ikcusbfd/issue/70141/980862
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1916951
