Makale Başlığı: Correlation of subclinic atherosclerosis, proinflammatory status, and insulin resistance with anthropometric measurements in polycystic ovary syndrome
Özet: Introduction: Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most frequently encountered endocrinopathy in women of reproductive age. Visceral obesity, cardiovascular complications, insulin resistance, and proinflammatory status are frequently seen in PCOS patients. Many anthropometric measurements are used to evaluate visceral obesity. The aim of this study was to evaluate the correlations of anthropometric measurements with cardiovascular risk, insulin resistance and proinflammatory status in PCOS patients. Material and Method: This retrospective study included 68 PCOS patients and 83 healthy females. Anthropometric measurements were evaluated of waist circumference, hip circumference, waist/hip ratio, body mass index (BMI), visceral adiposity index (VAI), lipid accumulation product (LAP), body adiposity index (BAI), abdominal volume index (AVI), body roundness index (BRI), and a body shape index (ABSI) of all the participants. Carotid intima media thickness (CIMT) for subclinical atherosclerosis cardiovascular risk evaluation, HOMA for insulin resistance assessment, and hsCRP levels for proinflammatory status assessment were determined as the main outcome measure. Correlations of anthropometric measurements with each other and with the main outcome measures were evaluated. Results: HOMA and CIMT were significantly higher in PCOS patients. Abdominal obesity indicators such as waist circumference, hip circumference, waist-to-hip ratio, BMI, LAP, BAI, BRI, AVI, VAI and ABSI were significantly higher in the PCOS group. There was no significant difference between the groups in respect of hsCRP levels (p=0.317). When the correlations of anthropometric measurements with PCOS status were evaluated, it was seen that all measurements were correlated. The highest correlation with CIMT was obtained in BMI measurement, and the highest correlation with HOMA was obtained in BRI measurement. The anthropometric measurements were not found to be correlated with proinflammatory status in PCOS patients.Conclusion: It was observed that anthropometric measurements may be functional in predicting PCOS-related subclinical atherosclerosis and insulin resistance. Visceral adiposity was found to be predictive for insulin resistance and subclinical atherosclerosis in PCOS patients.
Yazar isimleri: ['Davut SAKIZ', 'Murat ÇALAPKULU', 'Muhammed Erkam SENCAR', 'Bekir UCAN', 'İlknur ÖZTÜRK ÜNSAL', 'Mustafa ÖZBEK', 'Erman ÇAKAL']
Yayın Yılı: 26 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Medicine and Palliative Care
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jompac/issue/72702/1144152
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2539734
