Makale Başlığı: Exploring Pre-service Teachers’ Perception Regarding Factors in Technology Integration with Q Methodology
Özet: The aim of this study is to understand the perspectives of pre-service teachers on the factors affecting technology integration with the Q methodology. Forty-one pre-service teachers studying at the faculty of education of a state university participated in the research. Twelve statements reflecting the factors of technology integration were selected. In determining the Q statements, attention was paid to include elements at four levels in the integration process: teacher, institutional and system, teacher design thinking and student. The data were analyzed with the PQMethod 2.35 program. Principal component analysis was used in the factor analysis, and after the rotation process, a three-factor solution was reached: (a) individual-oriented perspective, (b) individual and school-oriented perspective, (c) planning, individual, school and system-oriented perspective. Among these identified perspectives, it was seen that there was a consensus on supporting teachers' professional development, access to technology, positive attitudes of students, and guidebooks supporting technology integration. However, it was seen that there were different areas in the opinions of the pre-service teachers in the three factors determined. It has been observed that pre-service teachers in the individual-oriented perspective prioritize teachers' value beliefs about the role of technology in education. It has been concluded that the pre-service teachers in the individual and school-oriented perspective attach more importance to the technological and pedagogical competencies of the teachers. It has been seen that the planning of the lesson plans for the integration of technology is a priority factor for the pre-service teachers with a planning, individual, institution and system-oriented perspective. Recommendations for teacher educators are presented for each identified perspective.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nilüfer ATMAN USLU']
Yayın Yılı: 13 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Bartın Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/buefad/issue/72980/1001562
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1997767
