Makale Başlığı: The reasons that prevent teachers' professional competencies from turning into performance
Özet: The purpose of this research is to examine the reasons that prevent teachers' professional competencies from turning into performance, according to teachers' views. The research was designed in the phenomenology pattern, which is one of the qualitative research designs. The study group of the research consists of 14 teachers working in public schools in Odunpazarı district of Eskişehir province. A semi-structured interview form was used as a data collection tool in the research. Research data were obtained from interviews with teachers. Content analysis technique, which is one of the qualitative data analysis techniques, was used in the analysis of the data. In the research, 7 sub-themes emerged under the theme of obstacles in the transformation of teachers' professional competence into performance. These sub-themes are working conditions, managerial attitudes, legal regulations, personal reasons, student-related reasons, parents-related reasons, and economic reasons. In the research, 7 sub-themes emerged from the opinions of the teachers under the theme of what needs to be done to turn professional competence into performance. These sub-themes are; improving working conditions, things to be done by school administrators, things to be done about lessons, applicable policies and legal regulations, things to be done for students, things to be done by parents, and improving personal and economic rights. When the findings obtained as a result of the research were evaluated, it was seen that multiple factors prevented teachers' professional competencies from turning into performance. In particular, the fact that non-teaching reasons are more than teacher-related reasons shows that non-teaching factors play an important role in teacher performance.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet ÖZDOĞRU']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal for the Education of Gifted Young Scientists
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jegys/issue/71129/1179945
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2670089
