Makale Başlığı: The Effects of COVID-19 Pandemic on Children with Hearing Aid
Özet: Aim: During the COVID-19 pandemic, especially children experienced adverse effects due to social isolation and lack of physical activity and peer communication. Communication and interaction and also special education are very critical for especially children with special needs, such as hearing-impaired children. The main objective of this study is to reveal the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on children with hearing aids. Method: In this current study, there were 22 children (6F,16M) with hearing aid with at least one year of hearing aid experience. The mean age was 9,18 (±2.7). Besides the demographic data form, The International Outcome Inventory for Hearing Aids (IOI-HA), World Health Organization Quality of Life-Bref Form (WHOQOL-BREF), Coronavirus Anxiety Scale, and Spence Children’s Anxiety Scale for questionnaires were used to reveal hearing aid usage profile. Results: Regarding the hearing-aid care, ear-mold replacement time and frequency of routine audiological assessment were different before and after pandemic (respectively p=0.011, p=0.004).  According to the sub-scales of the Spence Children’s Anxiety Scale, there were significant correlations between separation anxiety and physical health (p=0.006); physical health and obsessive-compulsive (p=0.005). Even though these children's perceived quality of life did not change after the pandemic, their social-anxiety levels were increased, especially related to hearing aid follow-ups. Conclusion: Children’s social anxiety levels using hearing aids are increasing in the COVID-19 pandemic. Due to social isolation, problems occurred in the routine controls of children with hearing aids. And also, they had problems such as attending and understanding online courses. These children need more special care to catch up with their peers.
Yazar isimleri: ['Cennet ÖZ', 'Müslüme Kübra KOÇ', 'Betül ÇİÇEK ÇINAR']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Odyoloji ve İşitme Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tjaudiologyandhear/issue/72425/1092354
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2328484
