Makale Başlığı: Breaking The Walls of Power: Heterotopya Place in Agnès Varda Cinema
Özet: Place is the existence form and scene of social relations. Place is directly involved in the production process, changes with the society, and cannot be thought of as a structure that consists of emptiness, is exhausted, comes to an end, or has no meaning other than exchange value. On the one hand, place becomes a product that contributes to the maintenance of the status quo shaped by power, the repetition of domination and heteronormative patterns, and the strengthening of hegemony. It is not only related to its social reproduction but also the systematic production of gendered practices and power relations. Gender is constructed through spatial relations and place is gendered. In his studies on place, Michael Foucault “places power against humanism that connects the subjective experience of man to the nature and consciousness of the individual, and on the other hand, tried to analyze the historical ruptures shaped by subjective experiences in the context of place”. He put forward the idea of creating new places, the theory of heterotopia, as a way to erode and destroy the power-subject relationship that creates atomized individuals in modern life. This study is through Agnès Varda's film “Sans Toit Ni Loi”, which finds the equivalent of the thinking and production relations that dominate the production of place in traditional cinema, breaking the established codes and creating an alternative cinema world; Henri Lefebvre's production of place, inheriting Michael Foucault's theories of heterotopia, examines heterotopias as places of otherness. The places in the movie Sans Toit Ni Loi have been effective in creating a sample for the concept of heterotopia and determined the nature of the discussions about the places of otherness. In this context, cemetery heterotopias on the perception of place changing over time old age as deviation heterotopia, and mirror heterotopia as a place without place examined through film. The aim of this study is to show the places of otherness that Agnès Varda presents to the audience through her cinema, who rebels against the domination of place shaped by power and to shed light on the possibility of another place.
Yazar isimleri: ['Esma SARMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: SineFilozofi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sinefilozofi/issue/72884/1065051
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2220673
