Makale Başlığı: Anadolu University International Students’ Awareness Levels of Eskişehir’s Cultural Heritage
Özet: Eskişehir is a city that stands out with its historical values and cultural richness in the northwest part of Central Anatolia. The city, which hosts various civilizations and cultures, has a potential for heritage tourism. It is one of the first settlements in the region dating back 9500 years. Eskişehir is recognized as an important historical and cultural center from which many Turkish poets and writers came out, as it is proof of peace and creativity. It has been named the “UNESCO Capital of Intangible Cultural Heritage” and was previously  Eskişehir 2013 Turkic World Capital of Culture Agency. The city is also called the “Student City”. Factors such as cost of living and quality of education at city universities contribute to the influx of international students. The number of international students at the city's universities is increasing from year to year. In the research, the awareness and interest of international students studying at Eskişehir Anadolu University Turkish Teaching Application and Research Center (TÖMER) about the cultural heritage of Eskişehir are investigated. In this study, in which the quantitative research method was used, data were collected using the survey technique. In the survey, which lasted between 25-30 minutes, the opinions of 71 students from TÖMER center were taken in the 2019-2020 academic year. The collected data were analyzed with basic level descriptive analysis techniques such as “Frequency”, “Percentage”, “Arithmetic Mean”, “ANOVA” and “T-test” with SPSS 25.0 program. In the light of the results obtained at the end of the research, some suggestions are presented that will help international students to be more aware of the cultural heritage of Eskişehir.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hanane MOKRANE', 'Hicran Hanım HALAÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Kültürel ve Sosyal Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/intjcss/issue/70727/1088277
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2311377
