Makale Başlığı: AN EVALUATION ON THE ARTISTIC PERSPECTIVE AND THE DESTANS OF TÜRYAN GÖZÜM FROM AKSARAY
Özet: The poems produced in the genre of “dastan” (epic) within the tradition of minstrelsy have several tasks different from the other products of the tradition. One of these duties is that dastans were texts that met the need of the society to receive information, and the other is that they were printed and sold by the minstrels and used to earn a living. The tradition of minstrelsy has been accepted as a whole in Turkish social life, this acceptance of the tradition on the social ground has affected the young people who have the aptitude for minstrelsy, and even if they are not in the traditional environment, the young people have been accepted in their areas by producing poems with the power of the tradition. Aksaray is a province where the tradition of minstrelsy is not strong. Ozan (minstrel) Türyan is a name that produces poems with the influence of tradition and has more dastans in his poems. This study aims to give brief information about the minstrel tradition in Aksaray, to show that the tradition leads even people who are far from the traditional environment to produce minstrel-style poetry and to make some evaluations on Türyan's dastans. The scope of the study is limited only to the poems of Ozan Türyan, and the poems of the minstrel, which were determined while he was alive, have been the subject of a study for the first time. have been the subject of a study for the first time. The study was written as a result of document analysis, which is one of the qualitative research methods. The descriptive analysis approach was used in the analysis of the data obtained because of the examination. In the study, it is stated that the minstrel wrote about social events in his dastans, carried many topics from murder to blood feuds, from bride kidnapping to two marriages; While doing these, it was seen that he increased his social status by gaining the title of "minstrel"
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 26 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Selçuk Üniversitesi Türkiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sutad/issue/72322/1163218
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2601167
