Makale Başlığı: ALTAI SHAMANISM IN THE WORKS OF ALTAY PAINTER ÇOROS-GURKIN
Özet: The Altays, whose history dates back to ancient times and is considered by many scientists to be one of the oldest homelands of the Turks, are located within the borders of several states today. Among these states, Russia is the one with the largest part of the Altai geography. The parts within the borders of Russia are also divided into two regions. The first of these is directly on the territory of Russia and is called the Altai Territory. The second region is an autonomous republic under Russia and was named the Altai Republic. Another part of the Altai lies within the northeastern borders of Kazakhstan and is called the Kazakhstan Altai. Another part remains within the northernmost borders of East Turkestan. Finally, a significant part of the Altays remains within the borders of present-day Mongolia. Today, when we say Altai Turks, we think of the Turkish population living in the Altai Republic. Grigoriy Ivanovich Choros-Gurkin is also an Altaic Turk, born within the borders of today’s Altai Republic, and is a good painter. Choros-Gurkin belongs to the Choros tribe of Altai Turks. After completing his primary education in Altai, he went to San-Petersburg and took painting lessons there, and returned to Altai as a good painter. Choros-Gurkin, who loved the Altays where he was born and grew up, spent his whole life for the progress, development and high civilization level of the Altai Turks and Altai after he returned. He first planned to open an art school, and through this art school he made efforts to ensure that Altai Turkish youth receive a good education and become enlightened individuals. On the other hand, he gave many struggles for the independence of the Altays. He has been active both in the political and cultural fields for the independence of the Altays. He was the leader of the Mountainous Altai Duma in 1917-1919, and he worked for Altai to be an independent republic and for Altai Turks to have equal rights with everyone. In the cultural field, he tried to place a free and independent Altaic theme in his work. The painting named Han-Altay is one of his most important works on this subject. As a result of his struggles for the sake of his homeland, he was first imprisoned and then murdered by the Soviet government. Throughout his life, Choros-Gurkin painted many pictures about the nature, geography, history, culture and beliefs of the Altays. The total number of his paintings and other works reaches five thousand. He made paintings that mostly included the subject of Shamanism related to the belief world of the people. The works of the painter on Altaic Shamanism were largely based on his observations. While processing this subject, he benefited as much as possible from the historical artifacts in the Altai geography. He went and saw many historical works related to Shamanism, especially the petroglyphs, and made them the subject of his paintings. Choros-Gurkin also met with shamans while dealing with shamanism-themed topics and tried to transfer the information they gave to the visual environment. Meeting with the shamans of his time and collecting information, and then recording this information in his works, allows us to obtain direct information about the shamans of that period and the activities of the shamans. While conveying this information, he also used writing from time to time and wrote explanations for certain parts of the pictures he made. Therefore, his works are a source on Altai Shamanism.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ali TORAMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 20 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Genel Türk Tarihi Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gttad/issue/71320/1036292
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2130967
