Makale Başlığı: Determination Of RF And ANTI-CCP Positivity Rate In Patients With Hematological Malignancies And Solid Organ Malignancies
Özet: Objective: Paraneoplastic arthritis may mimic many rheumatic diseases. In case reports and studies published to date, RF and anti-CCP have been studied as markers in differentiating paraneoplastic arthritis from other rheumatic disease. Although these studies have demonstrated increased levels of these markers in arthritis with rheumatoid origin, there is no study showing the prevalence of RF and anti-CCP in patients with hematological malignancy or solid organ tumors.Materials and Methods: In this study, we aimed to evaluate the prevalence of RF and anti-CCP in patients with hematological malignancy and solid organ tumors. The study included total 102 patients with a hematological or solid organ malignancy who were admitted to the Hematology and Oncology outpatient clinics at Gaziantep University  Hospital. The control group comprised of a total of 84 patients without a history of malignancy who were admitted to internal medicine outpatient clinics. Results: All participants were anti-CCP negative.  12 patient from study group (hematological malignancy=3, solid organ tumor=9) and 10 patients from control group tested positive for RF.  The rate of RF positivity was 11.76% in the study group. The prevalence of RF and anti-CCP positivity in this group of patients with hematological malignancy or solid organ tumor was not significantly different, compared to the healthy population. Conlusion: These findings may suggest that these markers which are used in the differential diagnosis of paraneoplastic arthritis and examined for more extensive utility may not be related to malignancies in the absence of arthritis. However, further large-scale studies conducted in the clinical setting are required to confirm these findings.
Yazar isimleri: ['Samet ALKAN', 'Bünyamin KISACIK', 'Mehmet YILMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Celal Bayar Üniversitesi Sağlık Bilimleri Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cbusbed/issue/72808/1033413
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2119051
