Makale Başlığı: Family Counseling within the Scope of Religious Counseling and Guidance from a Multidisciplinary Perspective
Özet: Many questions are asked to the Family and Religious Guidance Offices (FRGO), established under the Provincial Mufti of the Presidency of Religious Affairs (PRA), and these questions are recorded. The officers serving in the office answer the questions asked by the clients or make referrals to other institutions. The purpose of the article; to reveal the diversity of the client's questions, to draw attention to the inadequacy of the guidance given, and to emphasize the importance of interdisciplinary coordinated work. This study was carried out with a holistic single case design, one of the qualitative research designs. Documents were used as data collection technique. Between the years 2020-2021, Izmir, FRGO cards were studied. Of the 3443 questions registered in the cartexes, 3047 questions are related to the family. Among 3047 questions, 13 upper thematic frameworks were determined according to the variety of topics. These questions, which were classified according to the thematic framework, were analyzed and interpreted descriptively. Results; communication problem between husband and wife, engagement/marriage issues, relations with relatives, parent, youth and child problems, divorce, contraception and abortion, psychological problems, inheritance, domestic violence, addiction, infidelity and spouse's betrayal, sexual matters. Most questions are about communication problem between husband and wife. Due to the diversity of the question topics, besides FRGO's religious advice and guidance; The importance of cooperation and coordination with the law, alcohol and substance abuse treatment center (ASTC) and professions providing psychological assistance was emphasized.
Yazar isimleri: ['Suzan YILDIRIM']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Ahi Evran Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aeusbed/issue/73599/1039778
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2145001
