Makale Başlığı: The Reflection of Virtue Ethics on the Belief System in Ancient Egypt: The Maat Conception
Özet: The understanding of Maat, which was decisive in the interaction of people with each other and their relations with the gods in ancient Egypt, also showed the believers the way of a virtuous life. The understanding of Maat, which was accepted for millennia in Ancient Egypt, where the earliest written texts on virtue ethics were created, described the ideal man. Even though the understanding of theology and the order of exaltation of the gods changed over the millennia in ancient Egypt, the definition of the ideal man who had virtuous behavior remained the same, except for minor differences. In ancient Egypt, it was expected that the individual, whom the gods would approve and the king would own as a subject, would exhibit all the behaviors that are accepted as virtuous behavior today. The understanding of Maat, which is the organizer of social life by directing the life of the individual in Ancient Egypt, contains the rules that every individual who accepts to live in society must comply with. These rules aimed for people to continue their lives without harming each other and by helping each other. Apart from this main purpose, ensuring the continuity of agricultural production, which is indispensable for the continuity of life in Ancient Egypt, also found a place in the understanding of Maat. The understanding of Maat, which encompassed life in ancient Egypt, not only made life on earth beautiful and meaningful as a result of virtuous behavior, but also provided an eternal life after death. Compared to other civilizations of its time, Ancient Egypt had a very strong belief in the afterlife. In ancient Egypt, it was believed that the earth, which was created by the gods, was a temporary place for people, and it was thought that the life after death would be determined by the gods in return for the behavior of the believers on earth. In ancient Egypt, it was believed that if a person exhibited virtuous behavior, he would have a beautiful life that lasted forever, but if he had done evil to the gods and other people, he would be exiled to a place where he would be punished. In ancient Egypt, a person's virtuous behavior was determined by weighing his heart after death. In ancient Egypt, after death, the heart of the person holding the soul was placed in one pan of a divine scale by the god Anubis in the presence of many gods, and then the ostrich feather that Goddess Maat carried on his head was placed in the other pan. It was believed that if the heart and feather remained in balance, it was understood that the owner of the heart was a virtuous person, and that he would gain eternal life. The owner of the heart, which was heavy and heavier than an ostrich feather, was sent to be punished because it was full of bad behavior. This study aims to explain how the understanding of Maat, which determines the direction of belief in social life in Ancient Egypt, was shaped by virtue ethics, through texts that have survived to the present day.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ercüment YILDIRIM']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: İdrak Dini Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/idrak/issue/73882/1197864
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2744423
