Makale Başlığı: Clinical and laboratory comparison of patients diagnosed with microscopic colitis and diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome
Özet: Background and Aims: Patients with microscopic colitis and diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome have similar symptoms, primarily watery diarrhea and abdominal pain are observed in patients with microscopic colitis and diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome. Probably some microscopic colitis patients are followed up with the diagnosis of diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome because colonoscopy is not performed and symptoms overlap. In this study, we aimed to compare our patients with histopathological diagnosis of microscopic colitis and diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome patients clinically and laboratoryly, and to investigate the similarities and differences between the two groups. Materials and Methods: 41 microscopic colitis and 41 diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome patients followed up in our gastroenterology clinic between september 2016 and february 2022 were included in our study. Colonoscopy was performed, biopsies were taken, and histopathological examination was performed in both groups of patients. The clinical, laboratory, colonoscopic and histopathological data of these two groups were analyzed retrospectively and compared. Results: Demographic data of both groups of patients included in the study were similar (mean age: microscopic colitis: 50.96 years, diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome: 51.45 years, female/male ratios for both groups: 1.56). The prevalence of microscopic colitis in our center was 1.67 per 100 patients. 41.46% of microscopic colitis patients met the Rome IV criteria for diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome. While chronic diarrhea prevalance was 78,05%, weight loss: 19.51%, vitamin B12 deficiency: 12.20%, coexistence with Celiac disease: 4.88%, abdominal pain: 41.46% in microscopic colitis patients; these rates were found to be 43,90%, 9.76%, 0.00% and 78.05%, respectively in diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome patients. Conclusion: microscopic colitis is encountered more frequently than it is thought, in the population. Many microscopic colitis patients are followed up with the diagnosis of diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome due to the similarity of symptoms. In our study, we determined that the association of chronic watery diarrhea, weight loss, vitamin B12 deficiency and Celiac disease was more common in patients with microscopic colitis whereas abdominal pain was more common in patients withdiarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome. When these symptoms and signs are encountered in patients, the diagnosis of microscopic colitis should be considered and colonoscopic examination should be performed.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 25 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Akademik Gastroenteroloji Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/agd/issue/72292/1140906
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2526819
