Makale Başlığı: Examining the readability of texts in Turkish textbooks
Özet: The texts in the textbooks, which are the most important materials of the Turkish teaching process in schools, are selected by the textbook authors according to the criteria in the Turkish lesson curriculum. The quality of the selected texts is very effective in the creation of the content of the textbook, especially the activities. The boundaries of the concept of text are tried to be determined with different definitions, especially the textuality criteria and the features of the qualified text are tried to be explained. One of the frequently evaluated features of reading texts in textbooks, which have an important place in the acquisition of language skills, is the readability values of the texts. In line with this information, the aim of this research is to examine the readability characteristics of the texts in the secondary school Turkish textbooks. The model of the study is the basic qualitative research design. During the research process, data were collected by document analysis. The examined materials are secondary school Turkish textbooks used in the 2021-2022 academic year. 151 texts in secondary school Turkish textbooks were evaluated according to Ateşman Readability Formula and Çetinkaya Readability Formula. As a result of the research, according to Ateşman Readability Formula, the texts in secondary school Turkish textbooks are generally “easy” and “medium difficulty”; According to the Çetinkaya Readability Formula, it was concluded that it was generally at the level of educational reading and 8th and 9th grades. Findings show that some of the texts examined are above grade level. Considering the average readability values of the texts in the secondary school Turkish textbooks, it was determined that according to the Ateşman Readability Formula it changed as “easy” and “intermediate” level, and according to the Çetinkaya Readability Formula, all of them were at educational reading and 8th and 9th grade levels. It has been observed that the values of the readability qualities of the texts in the Turkish textbooks do not increase regularly as the grade level progresses (from the 5th to the 8th grade). In addition, it was concluded that there was no equality in terms of readability level among the books at the same grade level.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet BALCI']
Yayın Yılı: 21 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: RumeliDE Dil ve Edebiyat Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/rumelide/issue/73128/1193033
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2724569
