Makale Başlığı: Effect of Polishing Systems on the Color and Surface Properties of Resin Composites in the Process of Accelerated Artificial Aging
Özet: Objective: This study aimed to investigate the effects of polishing system on the color stability, surface roughness, and hardness of resin composites in the presence and absence of accelerated artificial aging (AAA).Methods: Six resin composites (Universal Restorative 200, G-Aenial Anterior, Ceram-X Duo, Admira, IPS Empress Direct, Clearfil Majesty Esthetic) were evaluated. Thirty disc-shaped samples were prepared for each composite group. Resin composite groups were divided into three subgroups: control (Mylar strip), disc (Optidisc), and rubber (Dimanto) (n=10). Color change (ΔE00) was calculated using the CIEDE 2000 formula. Before and after AAA, the surface roughness (Ra, μm) and hardness (VHN) values were measured. Data were analysed using ANOVA,the Bonferroni test, and Pearson correlation (p<0.05).Results: The Mylar strip group showed less color change than the polished groups. Universal Restorative 200 and IPS Empress Direct were associated with less discoloration than other resin composite groups. Before AAA, Mylar strips and Universal Restorative 200 were exhibited smoother values. There was no difference in the surface roughness between Dimanto-treated resin composites those associated with other materials before and after AAA (except Ceram-X Duo and Universal Restorative 200). Universal Restorative 200 yielded higher hardness valuesthan other composites (p<0.05). The Mylar strips yielded lower VHN values than the polished groups, but there were no differences among the polishing systems. There was a significant, weak, and positive correlation between color and roughness change.Conclusion: Composite type, finishing/polishing, and AAA had statistically significant effect on surface roughness and hardness. The Optidisc group exhibited less coloration and smoother surfaces than the Dimanto group. Nanohybrid (IPS Empress Direct) and microhybrid (Universal Restorative 200) resin composites performed better than other resins in terms of color change and roughness. Polishing systems applied toresin composite materials increased hardness.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammet FİDAN', 'Zeynep DERELİ']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Clinical and Experimental Health Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/clinexphealthsci/issue/72731/1014098
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2043878
