Makale Başlığı: Antonio's Dreams with the Dream Vision Technique in Rudolfo Anaya's Novel Bless Me, Ultima (1972)
Özet: Chicano literature began to rise in the second half of the 20th century. It emerged largely because of cultural awareness as part of the Chicano movement and the struggle for existence of Mexican-Americans in the United States. Chicano has been embraced as a way to restore both the power of self-identification and the pride of a rich, bilingual, cross-cultural heritage. When Bless Me, Ultima was published in 1972, was a serious product for today's novels' Chicano experience in the southwestern United States. More than three decades after its original publication, the book is still one of the best-known and best-selling works of Chicana/o literature. The success of Bless Me, Ultima has paved the way for other writers to follow Anaya's lead and explore, in their own forms and styles, the themes revealed by the novel that have become hallmarks of Chicana/o literature's contribution to North American literature in general. The essence of Bless Me, Ultima is the search for identity in the borderland between the worlds of a Spanish-speaking community and an English-speaking community. This study aims to show how the inner and religious conflicts experienced by Antonio, the main character in Rudolfo Anaya's Bless Me Ultima (1972) are revealed through his dreams and how they are handled in a literary way using the dream imagery technique. In search of identity, Antonio experiences uncertainty against the contradictory wishes of his parents, while trying to hold on to God, on the other hand, he blames God for his disappointments, pushes him to be independent in line with his wishes. This novel masterfully deals with 7-year-old Antonio's self-questioning, the difficulties he experienced during his transition from childhood to adulthood, the extraordinary events that took place around him, the depressions caused by social and family pressure, and the tides he experienced during this period. While Antonio's dark dreams drag us into his inner world about these processes, it also gives clues about the mystical and supernatural series of events that will occur in the next chapters of the book.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Van İnsani ve Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/visbid/issue/69006/1092036
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2327089
