Makale Başlığı: INVESTIGATION SPORTSMAN BEHAVIORS AND ATTITUDES TOWARDS SPORTS OF ATHLETES
Özet: This study aims to examine the sportsmanship behaviours and attitudes towards sports of the athletes participating in the interschool athletics group championship competitions in the 2018-2019 academic year in terms of various variables and examine the relationship between sportsmanship and their attitudes towards sports. The study is quantitative research with a relational screening model examining the relationship between two variables in athletes. As a methodology, the screening model was used to obtain valuable inferences about possible cause-effect relationships within the scope of the study. A random sampling method was used to determine the research sample. The study sample consisted of 110 (51.2%) women and 105 (48.8%) men, a total of 215 athletes who participated in the 2018-2019 academic year inter-school athletics group championship competitions. The Versatile Sportsmanship Behavior Scale and the Attitude towards Sports Scale were used as data collection tools in the research. Research data were analysed using SPSS 25.00 statistical package program. Descriptive statistics, correlation and independent samples t-test and ANOVA statistical techniques were used to analyse the data. The significance level was determined as .05. According to the research findings, it was determined that the sportsmanship behaviours and attitudes towards sports of the athletes differed significantly according to gender, age, sports year and purpose of doing sports. As a result, it was determined in the study that the multidimensional sportsmanship behaviour levels of the athletes and the level of attitude towards sports were high, and there was a moderately positive and significant relationship between the multidimensional sportsmanship behaviour and the attitude towards sports. In this case, as the athletes' sportsmanship behaviours increase, their attitudes towards sports also increase positively.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hasan ULUKAN', 'Mehmet ULUKAN', 'Aslı ESENKAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Aralık 2021
Dergi ismi: Bilge Uluslararası Sosyal Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/busad/issue/67638/1020861
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2070590
