Makale Başlığı: Minerals In The 3rd Region Of The Eyalet Of The Archipelago (Eyālet-I Cezāyir-I Baḥr-I Sefīd In Ottoman Empire ) And  (Capital Flowing Abroad)
Özet: Abstract :Eyalet of the Archipelago, one of the most important provinces of the Ottoman Empire, had sanjaks consisting of the islands of Lemnos, Mytilene, Rhodes and Chios. The minerals that we will describe, although their boundaries have changed over time, are discussed in the area covering this geography. After being operated by the state during the classical period, Ottoman minerals became the focus of attention of domestic and foreign investors from the second half of the 19th century. Many of the minerals in the province we have discussed have not yet been fully determined. We see that foreigners generally aspire to minerals on the islands opened for operation. Although the state did not find it appropriate to give the operation of the mines to foreigners; determined the conditions in the specifications and regulations and granted the mining concessions. The salterns in the sanjaks were also determined. Although the operating conditions and tax rates of the mines were determined by the state, some of the mines were not operated and the state canceled the privilege of the mines in cases where taxes were not paid. In the article, all kinds of documents reflected in the archive regarding the locations, usage areas, operating privileges, taxation, export areas of the minerals in the Eyalet of the Archipelago are explained in the traces of the documents found in the Ottoman Archives of the Presidency State Archives. In the article, the material wealth of the Ottoman Empire flowing abroad with the privileges given to foreigners in the context of mines, which was one of the basic wheels of the economy, from the sanjaks to the villages and the connected islands is also mentioned.Keywords: Eyalet of the Archipelago, Lemnos - Mytilene - Rhodes and Chios Sanjaks , Mines, Contracts, Foreign Concessions.
Yazar isimleri: ['Arzu BAYKARA TAŞKAYA']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Tarih ve Gelecek Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jhf/issue/72784/1150138
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2562591
