Makale Başlığı: Combination of slide-type landslides in different susceptibility: A case study of the Sakarya Basin Upstream
Özet: Landslide susceptibility maps are important for the spatial prediction of landslides. Therefore,the accuracy of landslide susceptibility models is the basis for hazard and risk studies.The creation of a single model for all types of landslides in a region affects the success ofsusceptibility. Since each type of landslide occurs in different mechanisms and materials, thelandslide controlling preparing conditions change. Creating susceptibility models according toa single landslide type gives better results. For this reason, it is the aim of the study to revealhow the susceptibility maps give results in qualitative and semi-quantitative approachesaccording to the type of a single landslide main mechanism which is debris and soil slide.For this purpose, susceptibility models were created for debris and soil type landslidesusing Frequency Ratio, Analytical Hierarchy Process, Weighted Overlay, Modified AnalyticalHierarchy Process and GIS Matrix Models according to Varnes (1978) classification in the studyarea located at the upstream of the Sakarya basin. While creating susceptibility depending onthe model results, the study area was divided into slope units, since a landslide would affectthe entire slope. According to the five model results, the results under the ROC change varybetween 0.79 and 0.92. This shows that the models give very good results and that the studyarea is well represented in terms of landslide susceptibility. According to the results, the areaswhere the landslide may be the highest and the lowest correspond to the common areas in allmodels. As a result of the study, it was revealed that the models created according to the mainlandslide type gave high results. These results made it easy to combine all models in a singlemodel. Thus, the study, which obtains a single model output from all models, contributes tothe improvement of landslide hazard and risk studies.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Emin CİHANGİR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Coğrafya Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tcd/issue/69891/1065523
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2222485
