Makale Başlığı: The Role of Silica Nanoparticle in Fingerprint Visualization Studies
Özet: Fingerprints are the most important evidence that allows the criminal to be profiled in a crime scene investigation. A fingerprint is considered evidence due to its unique characteristics. Fingerprints are not visible and therefore need to be visualized after being recovered from the scene. Many methods are used for visualization purposes. The most commonly used methods are dusting, Ninhydrin, DFO, Super Glue, etc. the methods are not. In addition to these methods, other chemicals, physical and optical methods have recently been uncovered. Due to technological developments affecting the field of Forensic Sciences, new dimensions have also been introduced to fingerprint studies. The use of nanoparticles has gained momentum, especially in fingerprint visualization studies. In the use of nanoparticles, silica nanoparticles are used in studies.Objective: this study, it was aimed to determine the level of use of silica nanoparticles in fingerprint visualization studies. Based on the data obtained for this purpose, which silica nanoparticle is most used, which method is most used in silica nanoparticle synthesis, what are the dimensions of the resulting molecules, which technique is most preferred for visualization, etc. it is aimed to provide researchers with up-to-date information by determining the parameters?Method: In this study, the systematic literature review was preferred to collect research data. The level of use of silica nanoparticles has been investigated in fingerprint visualization studies between 2016 and 2020. Data collection was obtained through scientific studies. Parameters such as silica nanoparticle molecules, synthesis methods, absorbent values, surface types used, imaging types were compared in the obtained publications.
Yazar isimleri: ['Elif ÇETLİ', 'Vahdet ÖZKOÇAK', 'Demet TATAR']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Aksaray University Journal of Science and Engineering
Yayın sayfa url: http://asujse.aksaray.edu.tr/tr/pub/issue/68039/1035557
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2128001
