Makale Başlığı: The role of perceived ICT competencies on primary school pre-service teachers' integrated STEM teaching intentions
Özet: The purpose of this research is to determine the role of primary school pre-service teachers' perceived information and communication technology (ICT) competencies on integrated science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) teaching intentions. Research participants are 242 primary school pre-service teachers enrolled at a state university in Türkiye. The data were collected by using the “Integrative STEM Teaching Intention Questionnaire” developed by Lin and Williams (2016) and adapted into Turkish by Hacıömeroğlu and Bulut (2016), the “ICT Competence Perceptions Scale” developed by Şad and Nalçacı (2015), and the “Personal Information Form” prepared by the researchers. These data were analyzed with descriptive statistics, independent samples t-test, one-way ANOVA, linear regression analysis. The results of the research showed that primary school pre-service teachers’ integrated STEM teaching intentions and perceived ICT competencies levels are above the medium. Also, integrated STEM teaching intentions and perceived ICT competencies differed significantly by gender and frequency of technology use. The research showed that male primary school pre-service teachers’ integrated STEM teaching intentions and perceived ICT competencies mean scores were significantly higher than that of females. Additionally, the research revealed that primary school pre-service teachers who every time and often use technology have significantly higher integrated STEM teaching intentions and perceived ICT competencies mean scores than those who never use technology and those who rarely use it. Finally, the research revealed that perceived ICT competencies are a predictor variable that can explain 43% of integrated STEM teaching intentions. Derived implications based on the results obtained were discussed and suggestions were presented.
Yazar isimleri: ['Çiğdem ŞENYİĞİT']
Yayın Yılı: 1 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Participatory Educational Research
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/per/issue/72501/1130440
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2485293
