Makale Başlığı: Investigation of the Effect of Different Surface Treatments on Shear Bond Strength in the Fabrication of Metal-Ceramic Dental Restorations
Özet: Aim: The bond strength between metal and porcelain is an essential factor for the success of metal-ceramic restorations. Therefore, this study evaluated the shear bond strength (SBS) between ceramic and cobalt-chromium (Co-Cr) alloys after oxidation treatment.Material and Methods: A total of 150 Co-Cr samples, 50 samples each, were produced from casting, laser sintering, and milling techniques. The primary group samples produced were divided into five subgroups. One of the subgroups is sandblasted with 110 µm Al2O3, and the others are ground with carbon separator disc, sintered diamond bur, tungsten carbide bur, and pink stone in one direction. SBS test was applied after the oxidation and veneering process. After debonding, digital microscopy investigated the surface characterizations of Co-Cr alloys. For the normality distribution of SBS measurements, the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test was used. According to the results, non-parametric tests were used in the study because the distribution was not suitable for the normal distribution, and the number of samples within the group was low in the subgroups. Kruskal Wallis and All pair-wise post hoc test (α = 0.05) were used for analysis.Results: There was a statistical difference between the laser sintering and milling groups according to the fabrication techniques. The highest SBS value was found in the Al2O3 laser group (34.35) and the lowest in the Al2O3 casting group (17.68). Surface treatments significantly altered ceramic adhesion. Almost all subgroups exhibited mixed failure. All of the SBS values found in this study were almost clinically acceptable.Conclusion: As different abrasives in the leveling and finishing of metal substructures may affect the metal-ceramic bonding, care should be taken in their use as much as possible.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 20 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Sağlık Bilimlerinde Değer
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/sabd/issue/72485/1172176
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2637578
