Makale Başlığı: Customer Profitability Analysis Approach in Smart Logistics Applications
Özet: The digitalization process in the world has shown its effect on logistics as well as in all sectors, making the concept of "Smart Logistics" based on technology gaining importance. The fact that logistics processes such as supplying raw materials before proceeding to the production phase, supplying necessary intermediate goods and products during the production phase, and delivering the final goods to consumers have become more and more complex, necessitated the use of technology in the logistics sector. The concept of smart logistics, which is connected with smart technologies, has developed with cloud computing, internet of things, big data, artificial intelligence and cyber systems, which played a role in the start of the Industry 4.0 process. As it is understood, smart logistics applications differ from traditional logistics applications in terms of the development of their technological aspects, and this is reflected in cost items.The aim of the study is to determine cost items in smart logistics activities, to consider cost items in terms of customer profitability analysis and to examine the profitability of customers operating in the smart logistics sector from the perspective of customer relations. The research has a qualitative feature and document analysis method is used. Despite the increase in studies on smart logistics applications in recent years, it is seen that there are deficiencies in costing approaches. For this reason, it is thought that an important gap in smart logistics costing will be closed with the current study and it will contribute to the literature.In the study, definitions of smart logistics were made and a literature review was conducted to determine the costs of smart logistics. In addition, traditional logistics costs are explained with the steps of Customer Profitability Analysis, one of the costing approaches. The importance and necessity of this analysis, its benefits and stages are explained. In the light of the information given, the variables rela-ted to smart logistics activities and the effect of these variables on determining the costs are explai-ned. As a result of the research, it has been determined that the cost items used in smart logistics applications are more and more technologybased than the items used in traditional logistics applications.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşe ATABEY', 'Nazlıcan DİNDARİK']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Fenerbahçe Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/fbujoss/issue/70817/1096639
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2345450
