Makale Başlığı: Cultural Studies: Making Ignorable Visible
Özet: This essay discusses cultural studies, which are known as an important academic and intellectual tradition of the 20th century that paved the way for the development of an academic discourse and different way of thinking from the usual ones. As such, cultural studies focus on what had been left out of the official scientific perspective and discourse. Focusing on the phenomenon of culture, cultural studies deal with what had hitherto been ignored by the dominant scientific and intellectual paradigm, which had only been concerned with the dominant [PE2] segments of society. Cultural studies were formed as an intellectual and scientific tradition alternative to this dominant paradigm. The lifestyles as well as the cultural and artistic productions of the oppressed sections of society and ordinary people became the primary interests of the school of cultural studies. Marxist thought can be said to have had an important impact on how the tradition of cultural studies formed. The critical philosophical tradition of the West was additionally significantly influential in how the intellectual tradition of these cultural studies formed. Meanwhile, the tradition of cultural studies had in fact also taken something from almost all scientific disciplines and therefore had gained an interdisciplinary character. Richard Hoggart, Raymond Williams, and Stuart Hall were among the founders of the school of cultural studies, which became institutionalized as the Center for Contemporary Cultural Studies within the University of Birmingham in 1964. The school of cultural studies focuses on such subjects as ethnicity, race, working class, youth subcultures, women, ideology, popular culture, and media. Very original theories and methods have been developed within the tradition of cultural studies, so much so that the theories, concepts, and methods that have been developed in cultural studies can be considered important contributions to today’s scientific and academic studies. Discourse analyses and reception analyses in particular are important methodological contributions in this sense.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nazife GÜNGÖR']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: 4. BOYUT Medya ve Kültürel Çalışmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dortboyut/issue/73437/1205075
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2773997
