Makale Başlığı: The Contribution of the Guarantee Contract to Social Peace in the Period of the Prophet Pbuh -in the Context of Examining the Surety of Kabîsa (r.a)-
Özet: Kabîsa b. Mühârik al-Hilâli el-Becîlî r.a. was a Sahâbî who had hadith narrations from the Muhammed s.a.s.. While he vouched for the diets debts his tribe had to pay but could not pay, someone about to get married sought help from his property. Since he could no longer use his property, he replied that he was “a guarantor for a heavy debt”. Then Hz. He went to the Massenger of Allah s.a.s. to get help in paying this debt.  The Prophet s.a.s. borrowed this debt in his name. The Prophet s.a.s. stated to him that it is permissible for a surety to ask someone else for something. Thus, Kabîsa r.a. alleviated the sadness of, who had to ask for something from someone else although he was rich. The debt he assumed was paid by zakat camels. Kabîsa r.a. is descended was given the nickname "al-Meysere" in order to emphasize her facilitation. The sahâbî father of Kabîsa, who has a hadith from the Prophet s.a.s., was also referred to by the society as "al-Muhârik" "Extraordinary benevolent". Kabîsa r.a. had kinship ties with people close to the Prophet s.a.s.. His ancestry, ethics and  His closeness to theThe Prophet s.a.s. was instrumental in paying the debts of the victims. The generous character of Kabîsa r.a. was also effective in calming the hatred and hatred between the two tribes who were fighting because of unpaid diets. When the Sahâbîs migrated to Madinah-i Münevvere, "Muhâcir-Ansar brotherhood" was established. The hadiths that Bukhârî presented under the title of "Kitabu'l-Kefâlet" in his work "Sahih" will be briefly discussed in this section. In the body text of the article, the word derivatives of the "guarantee" contract in the Quran will be mentioned. With the information contained in the commentaries on this hadith, the issue of guarantee will be discussed. Resources in the fields of Law, History, Insurance and Communication will be utilized.
Yazar isimleri: ['Osman Nedim YEKTAR']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Kocaeli İlahiyat Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kider/issue/70441/1068968
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2235655
