Makale Başlığı: Greek Turkish Relations: The Role of the Media Amidst Two Crises
Özet: The purpose of this paper is to examine the crises that appeared a  few days apart, the effort of refugees-migrants from Asia and Africa that are temporarily residing in Turkey to cross the Greek-Turkish border on the Evros / Meric river and the health crisis caused by the arrival of coronavirus in the other state. On February 28, 2020, Turkey opened its borders or even urged the tens of thousands of refugees and migrants who remain in its territory to cross the Greek-Turkish border on the Evros / Meric River and either settle in Greece or continue their journey to Central Europe. Contrary to what  happened in 2015, the Greek government took measures to prevent the violation of the Greek borders by refugees and immigrants. As this situation continued, the coronavirus health crisis became very serious in all European countries, as well as in Greece and Turkey. The two countries took measures to deal with the pandemic and suppress economic and social activity, and completely cut off road, rail and air communication between them. The paper will examine whether these two events, the refugee crisis and the health crisis have occupied the media in both countries. Whether they were covered to the same extent, or the coverage was more intense for one of the crises. If the amount of the news and their position on the agenda setting  was the same or even similar in the media of the two countries.  If all the media had the same stance on the events, being supportive towards the actions of their governments according to the theory of rally round the flag,  or if part of the media proved to be critical of their respective governments. If Piers Robinson’s policy media interaction model  applies for both countries. Finally, whether the news for the other country has a dominant position or it occupies a significant part of the international news agenda.
Yazar isimleri: ['Vlasis VLASİDİS', 'Theodora VOUNİDİ', 'Ioannis KOUTOUDİS', 'Vasileios VOUTSİKİDİS']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Balkan and Black Sea Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/balkar/issue/70687/1006591
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2016750
