Makale Başlığı: Investigation of the Effect of Blood Flow Restriction Training Applied to the Lower Extremity on Leg Volume Leg Mass and Leg Strength
Özet: Aim: Today, different training methods are used to improve the strength of athletes. For this reason, there are more than one training method and these methods can have different effects from each other. One of the methods applied for strength development is the blood flow restriction  (BFR) training method. The aim of this study is to examine the effect of low-intensity strength training applied to the lower extremity with blood flow restriction method on leg volume, leg mass and leg strength.Methods: In this study, 24 girl volleyball players aged 16-18 participated voluntarily. Participants were divided into two groups of 12 as blood flow restriction training group (BFRG) and classical hypertrophy training group (CHG). Participants applied a training program consisting of 5 exercise involving the lower extremities 3 days a week for 4 weeks. The BFRG applied 20-40% of their maximal strength and the CHG applied a training program consisting of five movements, including the lower extremities, three days a week for four weeks, with 70-80% of their maximal strength. At the beginning of the study and at the end of the four weeks, segmental body composition analyzes of the participants were determined with the Tanita BC 418 body analysis monitor, leg strengths were determined by leg dynamometer, leg volumes were determined by the Frustum method, and leg masses were determined by the Hanavan method.Results: Wilcoxon signed-rank test was used in the analysis of the study data. As a result of the statistical analysis, it was determined that  total free fat mass (FFM), leg strength, leg volume and leg mass increased in both BFRG and CHG. It was also determined that this increase was higher in the BFRG than in the CHG.Conclusion: It was concluded that strength training applied with the BFR method can be applied as a strong alternative method to CH training in terms of both working at low intensity and using time more economically. Regarding the fact that especially young athletes cannot be under heavy weights in a short time, it can be recommended to perform strength training with gradually BFR method among young people.
Yazar isimleri: ['Necdet Eray PİŞKİN', 'Zait Burak AKTUĞ']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Uluslararası Spor Egzersiz ve Antrenman Bilimi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/useeabd/issue/72465/1095896
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2342539
