Makale Başlığı: THE MEDIATOR ROLE OF ORGANIZATIONAL IDENTITY IN THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN EMOTIONAL COMMITMENT AND INTENTION TO LEAVE: A FIELD STUDY IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Özet: Within the framework of the studies in the literature, it can be assumed that the education staff, whose individual identity and organizational identity perception are compatible with each other, feel themselves belong to the school, develop an emotional attachment to the school by evaluating their own in accordance with the goals and objectives of the school, and as a result, they will not think of leaving the job. In this study, which was carried out to confirm this assumption, it was aimed to determine whether organizational identity has a mediating effect on the relationship between teachers' emotional commitment levels and their intention to leave. Accordingly, a field study was conducted by collecting data from 240 teachers working in schools in the city center of Tunceli. It was observed that the teachers participating in the study had a high level of emotional commitment perception. In addition, the participants expressed their opinions that the organizational identity scale is at a high level and that they do not intend to leave the job. In addition, it was concluded that there is a significant, direct and very strong relationship between teachers' emotional commitment levels and their organizational identity perceptions. At the same time, it has been observed that when the emotional commitment levels of the people who have a significant, negative and moderate relationship between the levels of teachers' emotional commitment and their intention to leave work, their level of intention to leave their job will decrease. It was concluded that there is a significant, negative and moderately strong relationship between teachers' intention to leave work levels and their organizational identity perceptions and that when their organizational identity perceptions increase, their intention to leave work levels decrease. When all the data were evaluated together, it was found that the organizational identity scale had a fully standardized indirect (mediator) effect on the effect of the emotional commitment scale on the intention to leave work scale. Accordingly, it can be said that the mediation effect of the organizational identity scale and the emotional commitment scale on the intention to leave work scale is high.The fact that there is no study in the domestic literature examining the relationships between the three variables mentioned together makes the study unique. In addition, attracting the attention of education specialists, administrators and teachers to the subject will contribute to increasing awareness and obtaining positive feedback for the application.
Yazar isimleri: ['Arzu KARACA', 'Sinem ŞENEL']
Yayın Yılı: 4 Nisan 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Academic Perspective on Social Studies
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/japss/issue/69277/1067434
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2229726
