Makale Başlığı: An Old Mobbing Story and COVID-19
Özet: Innovative medical education greatly relies on lifelong learning with universal standards in research, for generating novel knowledge for improvement maximum patient care. The other side of innovative medical education relies on success of development of novel ideas, perspective; skill building, future career objectives. Leaders have curious roles in the research assistant education. In the current century, both technology and education raced forward in many countries. Mobbing and bullying is an important problem in all fields, every sphere of life in workplaces. Unethical behavior must not take place in universities because universities are the centers of learning, and best academic teaching in ethical standards. Bullying may damage every individual in every academic degree and effect academic performance. In this paper I will discuss a mobbing case which is done to a young academician in many years ago, which is not most frequently observed type. However, such bullying behaviors may increase due to COVID-19 pandemic. Because COVID-19 pandemic may cause various problems in social groups difficulties, anxiety, and economic challenges, problems. Nowadays everybody is experiencing worry, uncertainty, anxiety, fear of economic problems, fear of dying. COVID-19 pandemic has created some unexpected problems to everybody however, academic researchers have additional worries and fears such as; the expiration time of chemicals, problems on chemicals are not imported from abroad on time also difficulties of knockout or transgenic experimental animals cannot be imported from abroad on time, and all these problems cause fear of unsuccessful experimental results, spending extra time. All these anxieties may cause arouse increasing unstable friendships and mobbing possibilities. The COVID-19 disease takes our future and experimental plans to waste basket and change everything including friendship.
Yazar isimleri: ['Duygu AYDEMİR', 'Nuray ULUSU']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Basic and Clinical Health Sciences
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jbachs/issue/72779/1091295
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2323956
