Makale Başlığı: The Divine Understanding of polytheists  (in the context of The Surahs of Ra'd and Abraham)
Özet: Abstract: Throughout history, almost all of the Prophets faced a group that opposed them. Opposing Islam, prophets and believers has been a situation experienced in every prophet period. Like this h. Muhammad (pbuh) and his companions also took their share from this opposition.In this study, we will examine the opposition to Islam, which takes place in most of the verses of the Qur'an, in terms of some verses of the Suras of Ra'd and Ibrahim. First of all, let's get to know the suras of Ra'd and Ibrahim, which we will examine. Surah Ra'd has forty-three verses, and there is a dispute as to whether it is Makki or Madani. However, from the point of view of the style of the verses, it is believed that the surah was revealed at the end of the Meccan period. However, although we consider the surah as a Makki surah according to the common opinion, we learn that some verses of the surah were revealed in Medina, based on the reason why it was revealed and tafsir. Surah Ra'd takes its name from the word 'Ra'd' in the thirteenth verse of the surah, which means "thunderstorm". Surah Ibrahim, on the other hand, has fifty-two verses and is a Makki surah. He prayed for the safety of Mecca and the well-being of the people living there. He gets it from Abraham.Here, instead of dealing with all the verses in the Suras of Ra'd and Ibra-him, we will only try to evaluate the verses in which the creative imagi-nation that brings Muslims and polytheists against each other and the worldviews that it has created can be examined. Undoubtedly, especially in the Meccan period of prophethood, Hz. There are many reasons for the polytheistic Arab opposition that the Prophet was dealing with. One of the most important of these reasons, and indeed one that cannot be over-come, is the understanding of deity that Muslims and polytheists believe in. We will try to examine this factor, which is the most important factor that brings the two groups against each other.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hakan AYBUĞA']
Yayın Yılı: 4 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Genç Mütefekkirler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gemder/issue/70174/1100501
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2362068
