Makale Başlığı: The Deadlocks of Richard Dawkins’s Critique of God’s Existence
Özet: AbstractBelieving or not believing that God exists leads to different perspectives in making sense of everything that is thought and experienced. The foundation of the existence of God, which is envisioned in an effort to make sense of it, raised a serious problem. This problem, which is the problem of justifying the existence or absence of God, has been tried to be solved by rational, scientific, existential, philosophical and exponential means. However, there are those who do not need these justifications to attribute existence or absence to God. In this historical process, some evidences have been put forward to affirm or negate the existence of God from a philosophical and theological point of view. Recently, there have been attempts to develop new and different evidence between these two poles. One of these initiatives is the views of Richard Dawkins, one of the most important representatives of the school, which has come up as the new atheism. In this study, Dawkins’s views on the problem of God’s existence, his criticism of God’s evidence and his basic evidence of his absence will be questioned. He says that adhering to irrational and unscientific thoughts based on religious belief within the framework of the aforementioned topic is very dangerous and has many negative reflections of religion and the belief in God, so it is a structure that must be fought against religion and religion should be completely removed from social life. His claims, evidence and opinions will be discussed here and the persuasiveness and philosophical value of his thoughts will be questioned by comparing rational, logical and philosophical evaluation; as a result, prominent dead ends will be tried to be detected. The main problem with this work is whether it is possible to prove the absence of God, which Dawkins claims, and to determine how accurate the claims in the evidence he makes are. Therefore, it is one of the objectives of trying to address his views and pass them through the filter of criticism, to make comparisons from time to time and to try to present different suggestions. For this purpose, the basic skeleton of the work will consist of Dawkins’ basis in favor and against the existence of God, the approach to evolution and natural selection, and the defense of evolution as evidence against design. In order to present this in a more systematic way, the study will be covered under two main headings. The ontological, teleological, beauty, religious experience evidence and Pascal and Bayes theorem will be discussed under the heading of evidence and criticism of God’s existence. Under the heading of evidence of God’s absence, the problem of evil will be processed with improbability, irreducible complexity, God of emptiness and proof of humane principle.
Yazar isimleri: ['Saim GÜNDOĞAN']
Yayın Yılı: 14 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: İhya Uluslararası İslam Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ihya/issue/71248/1089647
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2317176
