Makale Başlığı: The effect of mobile-assisted online flipped learning process on pre-service teachers' information literacy skills and educational beliefs
Özet: In today's world, where the accessibility of information is increasing thanks to the development and transformative effect of technology, the use of technology in the education system is now indispensable. The use of technology in the learning experiences of students, who are defined as digitally native in particular, has facilitated both the design of activities more appropriate for their learning habits and the application of contemporary methods based on the constructivist approach. The pandemic process has increased the application of constructivist methods and the importance of research on these methods in order to increase the quality of distance education. In this context, the effect of the mobile assisted online flipped learning experience on pre-service teachers' information literacy skills and their educational beliefs was examined. A total of 74 pre-service teachers studying in the first year of the Guidance and Psychological Counseling Department of Tokat Gaziosmanpaşa University, Faculty of Education, participated in the study, which was carried out in a four-week period. The research was conducted with the quasi-experimental design with pretest-posttest control group. In the study, the pre-service teachers in the experimental group taught the selected topics within the scope of the Instructional Design course online through the mobile assisted flipped learning model, while the pre-service teachers in the control group taught the same topics online through the leacture-based instruction model. Before and after the process, measurement tools were applied to both groups, and the differences between and within groups were evaluated. In addition, by conducting a focus group interview with the pre-service teachers in the experimental group, their experiences about the process were tried to be understood in depth. As a result of the research, it was determined that the flipped learning model is also an effective method in the distance education process, and the course conducted through the mobile assisted online flipped learning model contributes to the increase of the information literacy level and edicational beliefs by improving the different skills of the pre-service teachers.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bilal İNAN', 'Kerem KILIÇER']
Yayın Yılı: 10 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Journal of Educational Technology and Online Learning
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jetol/issue/72940/1159183
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2584942
