Makale Başlığı: A META-ANALYSIS STUDY ON THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN JOB SATISFACTION AND JOB PERFORMANCE IN TURKEY
Özet: The aim of the study is to gather the relationship between job satisfaction and job performance, which was carried out in Turkey and which was done in excess in the field, under one roof with a meta-analysis study and to obtain a general result. In contrast to similar techniques used to measure the relationship between job satisfaction and job performance among national publications, the methodology of our study used the meta-analysis technique. In an element that increases the value of the study, its methodology is comprehensive, easy to understand and prepared in a guiding nature. For this purpose, the field was systematically examined and included in our 40 individual research studies in accordance with the established criteria. These studies were first uploaded to Comprehensive Meta Analysis v3 and encoded in accordance with the analysis. Before starting the analysis of the studies, the effect value was determined in which model to be made, and the random effects model was preferred. Subsequently, impact size, publication bias and subgroup analyses were performed. Looking at the outstanding findings of the study, a moderately positive effect was found between job satisfaction and job performance. In addition, the individual research included in the study does not have a publication bias. Another important output of our study was that statistically significant differences were found in the relationship between sectors in job satisfaction and job performance. Tourism and health sectors have weak levels of industry, while education and service sectors have moderate levels of impact.
Yazar isimleri: ['Okan Anıl AYDIN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Beykent Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bujss/issue/70861/1056636
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2187438
