Makale Başlığı: Theo-Sociological Paradigm of the Evangelic Religious Movement
Özet: The sociology of religious groups in general and (new) religious movements in particular are among the important topics of the sociology of religion. Evangelism, which emerged within the Protestant sect of Christianity, draws attention as a new religious movement with its unique theo-sociological structure. As a matter of fact, the movement has a reactive aspect against the Protestantism from which it emerged. In this sense, although the movement has the appearance of a religious movement formed by the coming together of individuals who advocate the rebirth of Christians, it has had many different theo-sociological, strategic, political, economic, etc. missions on a global scale in the process. Although the evangelical movement emerged with the claim of a different religious interpretation within the Protestant sect of Christianity, it seems to have turned into a global goal of controlling and designing the world politics and system with its theo-sociological structure of different dimensions. This different theo-sociological approach is based on the messianic ideology of thought that combines Christian mysticism and Jewish cabalism, whics is based on the theological foundations of the biblical, which consists of interpretations of the old and new testament.This article deals with the theo-sociological dimension of the evangelical movement, which expresses a very broad and intricate structure within the framework of the new religious movements, which is one of the important subjects of the sociology of religion. In this context, the article is focused on “what are the theological principles of evangelicalism?”, “what is the sociology of the evangelical movement?”, “what are the indicators that are effective in the background perspective of the theo-sociology of the evangelical movement?”, It attempts to understand, make sense of, and analyze fundamental problems such as. The article aims to contribute to the sociology of religious groups and new religious movements, which is one of the important topics of the sociology of religion, by analyzing the evangelical movement in the theo-sociological dimension within the framework of the documentation method. On the other hand, the article is important in terms of showing the possibility of interdisciplinary research of the mutual interaction between the disciplines of the sociology of religion and the history of religions, and being an example of the subject permeability (transitivity) between these two disciplines of science.
Yazar isimleri: ['Muhammed YAMAÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 14 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: İhya Uluslararası İslam Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ihya/issue/71248/1065401
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2222091
