Makale Başlığı: Conditional Divorce as a Way of Obtaining a Separation for Women in Ottoman Fatwas, 16th-18th Centuries
Özet: This article discusses conditional divorce as a way for women to obtain a separation in Ottoman fatwas. The purpose of the article is to describe that Ottoman women, who do not have the power to divorce and have very limited legal grounds for separation, use conditional divorce as a alternative way of obtaining a separation in certain family law issues. The fatwas, which were asked to the Ottoman muftis who served in Anatolia and Rumelia between the 16th and 18th centuries, contain important data from the point of the realization of the purpose. Ottoman family law allows the husband to delegate the power of divorce to his wife. In cases where the husband depend divorce on a certain act of his wife (If you do X, you are divorced), conditional divorce is also a kind of transfer of authority. A woman who wants to obtain a divorce could achieve her goal by simply fulfilling the condition. Besides, conditional divorce is functional as well in some family law issues that cause the woman to become a victim. In Ottoman family law, the absence of the husband and domestic violence have consequences that do not sufficiently observe the law of the woman. In both cases, the fatwas indicate that women could obtain a separation through conditional divorce. The dominant legal system (Hanafi law) generally does not accept the conditions that the woman put forward during the marriage as binding. However, Ottoman women could make these conditions binding by means of conditional divorce. This article presents evidence from the fatwas that were asked to the Ottoman muftis regarding these findings. The article, which uses the issues reflected in the fatwa collections from real legal life as the main data, is a legal history study.
Yazar isimleri: []
Yayın Yılı: 2 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: İslami İlimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/islamiilimler/issue/73674/1213896
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2809962
