Makale Başlığı: MATHEMATICS IN ANCIENT MESOPOTAMIA, A GENERAL ASSESSMENT
Özet: It can be said that the relationship of human beings with mathematics, which is used practically in daily life and theoretically in scientific concepts, is as old as its own history. From the earliest times, human beings must have evaluated the beings around them in terms of quantity, at least according to the principle of reciprocity. In the history of humanity, the oldest concrete objects that can be associated with mathematics are bone finds with notches on them, dated to the Paleolithic era. These jagged bones probably indicate computation and/or record keeping of "things" of which we do not know what, and point to the earliest relationship of man to mathematics.  When it comes to Neolithic times, especially in Mesopotamia and its environs, calculation stones or tokens were invented for the purpose of mathematical calculations and record keeping. Some researchers claimed that this token system, used extensively and widely in commercial life from the 8th millennium BC to the end of the 4th millennium BC, was the basis of the writing developed in the oldest cities of Sumer, and especially the numerals and the sexagesimal place number system. Thanks to the cuneiform script, which changed and developed over time, and the numeral symbols in this writing system, the foundations of mathematics were laid in Mesopotamia, as in many other subjects. Mesopotamians did not only use mathematics for practical purposes in their daily lives but also taught it to students in schools as a field of science. Especially dating from the Old Babylonian Period, lots of mathematical school texts have been unearthed in several cities of Babylonia. Numerous mathematical school texts found during excavations in Mesopotamian cities show that the foundation of modern mathematical science is clearly not based on Mesopotamian cultures but not on Greek civilization, as is generally accepted.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hakan EROL']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Ankara Üniversitesi Dil ve Tarih-Coğrafya Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dtcfdergisi/issue/70281/1057742
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2191650
