Makale Başlığı: Animal Studies in Literature an Ecocritical Perspective
Özet: In the field of ecocritic literature, recent periods have begun to be quite influential. The theory, which aims to reveal the positive or negative effects of human beings on the environment, has found a wide place in the field of literature. The theory of ecocriticism, which is in connection with many different fields, aims to create awareness in individuals about environmental problems by examining the relationship between human and environment. In terms of appealing to large masses, the field of literature has been one of the main factors affecting the prevalence of the theory. The theory drew attention to the changing perception of the environment by revealing the damage done not only to nature but also to all living things living there. The increasing consumption frenzy of human beings with modern life is dragging the world they live in towards extinction. The environmental criticism theory, which aims to prevent this situation and to create a certain nature awareness in people, also deals with many problems that arise in nature.The theory of ecocriticism has divided over time into various branches. Animal ecology, one of them, criticizes the egocentric attitude of humans and deals with their behavior towards the world they live in and animals. Mankind, who considers himself superior to other living things and tries to dominate them, has caused the extinction of many living species. Literature, which has more animation, reading and sound possibilities than other fields, is very effective in revealing the damage to the environment and animals. So much so that when literary texts are examined, we see that animals are processed in almost every text, from pre-Islamic works to contemporary works. This study, which focuses on showing environmental problems by examining animal depictions in literary works, also aims to reveal the appearance of ecocriticism in Turkish literature.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kübra KURU']
Yayın Yılı: 27 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Bitig Edebiyat Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/bitigefd/issue/70352/1118085
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2434105
