Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of the Philosophy for Children- P4c Program Applications Applied in Educational Institutions in Turkey According to Teacher's Opinions
Özet: In today's world, when artificial intelligence has begun to dominate, children's inquiring and argumentative attitude while developing concepts about existing events, facts and situations leads children to meaningful learning and ensures the permanence of information. In the Workshop, which was held in order to obtain data for this research, it was aimed to evaluate the philosophy for children (P4C) program applications applied in educational institutions in Turkey according to the opinions of teachers. In order to obtain data for this research, it was aimed to develop strategies and action and activity proposals for the open spaces that emerged by determining the studies on the "Philosophy for Children (P4C) Program" practices in educational institutions. This research is a case design study and multiple diversity was used in sample selection.The research working group consists of volunteer teachers from different branches who participated in an international congress in Turkey in the 2020-2021 academic year. In the study, data were collected by swot analysis with a workshop held in line with the opinions of fifteen (15) teachers, consisting of three (3) groups and five (5) participants in each group, and the data were studied with descriptive analysis method in line with the opinions received. Direct quotations from teacher opinions are included. The fact that the teachers did not participate in sufficient in-service training on this research subject, there is a new approach and practice study in the field as a philosophy for children (P4C) application field, in this context, the physical equipment and material deficiencies meet the need, not in quality and quantity, students and teachers are questioning and argumentative. The fact that they did not feel free and self-confident in expressing themselves in exhibiting behaviors and misunderstanding concerns stand out as the problems encountered in this research. On the other hand, since the realization of asking the right questions and analyzing the philosophy for children approach of the teachers supports the self-confidence, questioning, creativity, critical thinking, cooperative and attentive thinking aspects of the children, the academic success of the students, the teachers' positive opinions in terms of their professional development, it gives them the opportunity to develop themselves, and the different perspectives. They stated that it gives an angle.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ramazan AKAN', 'Asude BİLGİN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Kaygı. Bursa Uludağ Üniversitesi Fen-Edebiyat Fakültesi Felsefe Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kaygi/issue/72626/1090736
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2321646
