Makale Başlığı: Chromosomal Anomalies in Bone Marrow Samples of Patients Diagnosed with Hematological Cancer: FISH Results of 109 Cases from one Center
Özet: Objective: Hematological cancers are a group of neoplasms that affect the bone marrow, blood and lymph nodes, usually associated with structural and numerical chromosomal abnormalities. Bone marrow examination in hematological cancers has an illuminating and guiding role in the diagnosis and prognosis of the disease. In our study, it was aimed to retrospectively evaluate the results obtained by using the Fluorescent In Situ Hybridization (FISH) method of certain genetic disorders in patients with a diagnosis of hematological cancer. Materials & Methods: In our study, between January 1, 2021 and November 30, 2021  The results obtained from bone marrow samples of 109 patients (KML n=14, AML n=40, KLL n=6, ALL n=27, M.Myelom n=22) with pre-diagnosis of hematological cancer, who were referred to Dicle University Faculty of Medicine, Department of Medical Biology and Genetics, Department of Hematology and other clinics, were analyzed retrospectively in terms of age, gender, and disease distribution. All of the patients included in the study group were evaluated in terms of chromosomal anomalies, numerical and structural changes, or presence of balanced translocation. Results: There were 47 female patients and 62 male patients, and the mean age was 48±21.6 years. As a result of the examination of the cases, known for  AML; t(15;17), monosomy 7 and trisomy 8,  t(9;22) for KML; del(13q14) and del(17p13) for KLL, t(11;14)(q13;q32) for M. Myeloma, (t[9;22]) (bcr-abl) and t(4;11) for ALL structural and numerical chromosome changes such as shown first. In addition, in the comparison of the groups, no significant difference was found between the materials participating in the study, male and female. Conclusion: In this study, which we conducted with our patients who were prediagnosed with hematological cancer with the FISH method, we evaluated our results regarding the prognostically important anomalies associated with the diseases. Rapid and accurate diagnosis of diseases is very important in terms of treatment planning and prognosis of the course of the disease. As a result, considering the difficulty of obtaining cells from bone marrow taken under limited and difficult conditions according to our study results, it was concluded that the FISH method is a powerful and effective technique used in cancer genetics, since it provides the opportunity to work even in interphase cells.
Yazar isimleri: ['Lütfiye Gül ÇALIŞKAN', 'Mahmut BALKAN', 'Selahattin TEKEŞ', 'Diclehan ORAL', 'Mahir BİNİCİ', 'İlyas YÜCEL']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Ege Tıp Bilimleri Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/egetbd/issue/72431/1118486
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2435722
