Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of Awareness on Climate Change from the Perspective of University Students: The Case of Ondokuz Mayıs University Faculty of Architecture
Özet: With social development and interactions, living spaces are constantly changing. This change starting with agricultural practices, proceed to affect the natural environment negatively with the industrial revolution. The unconscious use of resources and the increase in migration to cities have caused various environmental problems. Especially the impermeable surfaces/roads that increase with urbanization have caused the deterioration of the natural landscape structure, the breaking of the natural water cycle in the city and even the destruction of important habitats. This caused the climate to change. With the continuation of urbanization and population increases, the effects of climate change on life will be great.This study was carried out to evaluate the awareness of climate change in addition to the doctoral study conducted to evaluate the effects of climate change on Samsun province. In particular, the opinions of university students on the effects and consequences of climate change and the formation of social awareness were taken. A questionnaire consisting of 28 questions was prepared; It was made to the students of the Faculty of Architecture of Ondokuz Mayıs University, who volunteered to participate in the survey. The views of the future architects and urban and regional planner candidates were evaluated in 3 categories: Awareness on Climate Change, Formation of Community Consciousness, and Climate Vulnerability of the Region. As a result, it has been observed that general awareness begins to emerge at an early age, their knowledge and training on climate change has improved with university education, and awareness has been created in their environment with the education they have received. In addition, it is thought that social awareness is very important in climate change, this can be achieved by establishing the control mechanism of local governments and making the necessary legal arrangements, and it is still not too late to fight against climate change.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yeliz EMECEN', 'Nurgül ERDEM']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Temmuz 2022
Dergi ismi: Meriç Uluslararası Sosyal ve Stratejik Araştırmalar Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/meric/issue/71478/1118584
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2436116
