Makale Başlığı: The Foreign Policy and War Powers of the President of the United States of America from the Perspective of International Law
Özet: This article concerns the evaluation of the powers of the US President apropos the foreign policy administration within the framework of international law, the U.S. Constitution, relevant legislation, and judicial decisions. The president of the United States represents executive power and is authorized to conduct foreign affairs as the principal government organ. Conversely, the absence of a comprehensive directive about the powers encompassed by the framework of the performance of foreign relations has caused discussions throughout history on the basis of the division of such powers between the president and Congress. The first part of this bipartite research examines diplomatic recognition, which is considered an implicit power of the president. The paper then investigates the allocation of power vis-à-vis the finalization of treaties and other international agreements as well as decisions to withdraw from them. The issue of recognition matters specifically when a state establishes diplomatic relations with an entity that has recently attained legal international personality. Nevertheless, treaties are often used as foreign policy tools because they allow states to stipulate binding rules. The second part of this study addresses the war powers and the management of overseas military operations within the ambit of the authority of the president as the nation’s Commander-in-Chief. The United Nations Charter in principle prohibits states to use force or threaten to use force. Nevertheless, exceptions to this prohibition are also stipulated through collective security norms inscribed in Chapter 7 and the acknowledgment of the inherent right of countries to self-defense in Article 51. The US Constitution grants Congress the power to declare war; in practice, however, presidents broadly construe their powers in this domain based on their executive authority and the title of Commander-in-Chief.
Yazar isimleri: ['Cüneyt YÜKSEL', 'Kaan ERDOĞAN']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Public and Private International Law Bulletin
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/ppil/issue/67916/1017565
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2057628
