Makale Başlığı: Examining The Experiences of Parents During The Pandemic: A Qualitative Study
Özet: During social-isolation due to the Covid-19 pandemic, parents had to stay with their children at home as they had never experienced before. The present study was carried out to determine the experiences of parents at home with their children during social isolation and the support status of parents. In this context, case study, one of the qualitative research methods, was used in the study. The study group consists of 30 parents with children between the ages of 2-18. Data were collected through an interview form consisting of closed and open-ended questions from the parents. The data obtained using the content analysis method were analyzed via the Maxqda program. When considering the data obtained according to the experiences of parents with their children; It is observed that parents mostly enjoy playing games with their children and then do housework with their children. When parents are asked about a new situation that they started to do with their children during the pandemic, it is seen that the parents mostly started to do housework with their children. This is followed by games/activities they have never played before and preparing meals together in the kitchen. When the parents were asked what the most difficult situations with their children were during the pandemic, it was determined that the difficulties in setting rules and limits on the child, the child's inability to socialize and the child was bored. When parents are asked about their children's feelings about the pandemic, it is seen that children are mostly sad and afraid, according to the parents' report. When asked about the social supports that parents have in their lives, it was determined that the majority of them had social support for their children and related issues, and that they could reach these supports during the pandemic. During the pandemic, it is known that many parents sometimes experience difficulties in spending time at home while discovering new situations for their children. In this context, the existence of social support of parents is considered to be very important.
Yazar isimleri: ['Pınar BAYHAN', 'Sena ÖZ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Çocuk ve Gelişim Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/cg/issue/70994/1061800
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2207824
