Makale Başlığı: Frequency of Home Accidents of Children Between 0-6 Years and Levels of Diagnosis of Mothers’ Safety Measures
Özet: Aim: Children are vulnerable to home accidents and injuries due to their inability to protect themselves developmentally, and they need the protection of their parents. In the study, it was aimed to investigate the frequency of home accidents of children aged 0-6, the most common types of accidents, and the knowledge levels of mothers on Diagnosing Safety Precautions for Home Accidents.Material and Method: The study is a cross-sectional and descriptive study and was conducted with 380 parents who applied to the pediatric outpatient clinic in December 2021. The “Scale of Diagnosing the Safety Precautions for Home Accidents of Mothers with 0-6 Age Group Children” was used in the questionnaire form. In the analysis of the relations between the variables, independent groups t-test, the One-way Anova test, the Pearson correlation test, Chi-Square test and Logistic Regression Analyze were applied.Results: The frequency of children who had home accidents was 11.3%. The most common type of accident is falling. The mean score of the Mothers’ Scale for Diagnosing Safety Measures for Home Accidents was 155.9±15.2. Identification of Safety Precautions scores are higher in mothers who graduated from college, those whose children had a home accident, and those who received first aid knowledge. The most important factors affecting the accident at home are the number of children and the caregiver.Conclusion: Home accidents, one of the preventable risk factors, are critical health problems. Providing information about all home accidents, especially falls, should be among the priority health targets.
Yazar isimleri: ['Dilek ENER', 'Mehmet Yavuz ÖZBEY']
Yayın Yılı: 22 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Medical Records
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/medr/issue/72317/1070345
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2241337
