Makale Başlığı: Düzeltme:
                                                                                                                A Content Analysis of Academic Studies on Philosophy with Children in Turkey
Özet: This research is a descriptive content analysis aiming to examine the theses completed at the institutes of universities in Turkey and the articles published in Turkish academic journals regarding philosophy with children. The data collected with Classification Form of Theses and Articles on Philosophy with Children were analyzed with SPSS 26.0 and MAXQDA 22 programs. The research has reached the following findings: The number of studies conducted in Turkey on philosophy with children has increased in the last five years. More articles have been written on this subject. The doctoral dissertion is the least conducted type of study. Most of the studies have focused on theoretical explanations. Studies are generally literature review. Studies other than literature review were carried out with qualitative and quantitative methods.The mixed method is the least preferred method. In the studies, mostly quasi-experimental, case study and action research designs were preferred. The studies were generally carried out at pre-school and primary school levels, with 11-100 participants. The duration of the philosophical activities is usually between 8-14 weeks. The interview form was frequently used as a data collection tool in the studies. In the studies, qualitative data analysis methods were mostly used. This is followed by quantitative data analysis methods. The use of both qualitative and quantitative analysis methods together has been the least preferred analysis method. Content analysis, one of the qualitative analysis methods, has been the most preferred technique in the studies. In the analysis of quantitative data, inferential statistical techniques, notably techniques such as t test and Mann Whitney U, were used. This is followed by quantitative data analysis methods. Almost half of the applied studies were carried out in pre-school. More than half of the other studies were carried out independently of course content. The number of studies in which philosophy activities with children were carried out together with any course content is very few. In most of the studies in which philosophy activities with children were carried out, a method was not followed in practice. Philosophy activities with children were designed according to a method in only three studies. The recommendations of the studies were mostly for conducting new research. Suggestions for practice are the generalization of practices on philosophy with children, raising awareness, and more planned, programmed and systematic activities for philosophy with children. In conclusion, there is a need for more research on philosophy with children in Turkey. New research should be the studies which are carried out with the qualitative research method in order to examine the effects of philosophy activities with children on critical thinking skills, answer the question especially “Can children do philosophy?” and the studies which apply one of the methods of philosophy with children and evaluate this method.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatmanur BUDAK DURMUŞ', 'Muhittin ÇALIŞKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 13 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Felsefe Dünyası
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/felsefedunyasi/issue/73823/1218929
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2831383
