Makale Başlığı: STRUCTURAL AND CULTURAL ANALYSIS ON THE İLBEYLİ TURKMEN AVAZ OF SIVAS PROVINCE
Özet: Sivas Ilbeyli Turkmens, a branch of the İlbeyli tribe, which is thought to be connected to the Bayat, Alkırevli (Alka-evli) and Afşa tribes, live in 42 villages located in the southwest of Sivas between Sivas Şarkışla and in the center of Sivas. The region called Ilbeyli region, where Sivas Ilbeyli Turkmen live, does not have an official status, but is a geography whose borders are determined by its cultural and demographic structure. Ilbeyi Turkmens, who made this geography their homeland, whose borders were drawn with discourses such as "Kavlak at the top, Yanalak at the bottom", continue to maintain their musical culture in the perspective of authenticity, as in all their cultural phenomena.The word "avaz" is used to express music in Sivas İlbeyli Turkmens. In this study, the concept of "avaz" used in the region has been explained, and the melodies known by the avaz source people in the region have been compiled and notated. It has been seen that laments and halays, which are in a dominant position in the local music culture, are more common than other forms, and since the volume of the study will exceed the limits of the article, restrictions have been made in the examples given. The study was carried out in order to make a structural and cultural analysis on the local music through field research.The study was carried out in the perspective of the discipline of Ethnomusicology, in order to culturally and formally examine and analyze the music, which is a musical representation of the collective memory of the Ilbeyli region, to create a scientific source and to reveal social and cultural perspective. With this study, while investigating İlbeyli music, the communities in Sivas Ilbeyli geography with Ilbeyli music culture were examined and their musical identities were tried to be revealed, conceptualized and a discourse on these musics was tried to be established.In this research, data collection techniques (observation, interview, recording, analysis and compilation) in "ethnographic research", which are among the qualitative methods, were used, and the relevant literature was searched for an in-depth investigation of İlbeyli music culture with literature review and historical research techniques.e.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa DAĞDEVİREN']
Yayın Yılı: 18 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Motif Akademi Halkbilimi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/mahder/issue/73914/1199540
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2751723
