Makale Başlığı: The Hagia Sophia In Modern Arabic Poetry
Özet: Hagia Sophia means sacred wisdom in Ancient Greek and had been used as a museum in the recent past. Currently it has been given the status of a place of worship with the official name of Ayasofya-i Kebir Cami-i Şerifi [Hagia Sophia Grand Mosque], and it has an important place in the religious cultures of Christianity and Islam. This patriarchal cathedral was built by Justinian I between 532-537 AD as a basilica and had served as the center of the Eastern Orthodox Church and its Ecumenical Patriarchy until Fatih Sultan Mehmet Khan conquered Istanbul in 1453, when it gained the status of a mosque after the first Friday prayer he performed with his army on the third day of the conquest. Mehmet II dedicated the mosque with this first congregational prayer in Hagia Sophia and established the Fatih Complex and the Hagia Sofia Waqf. Thus, Hagia Sophia not only had a symbolic meaning and value in terms of indicating the power of the Ottoman State and the victory of the Muslims against the West but also became a sacred symbol in the hearts of Muslims. As a natural consequence of this, the reconquering of Hagia Sophia by Westerners became a goal to be reached. Being sacred to both Orthodox Christianity and Islam, Hagia Sophia has been equally important to both Christians and Muslims in terms of its location and as a cultural heritage site. From the conquest of Istanbul to the present day, first the Ottoman Empire and then the Republic of Türkiye made great sacrifices and efforts to protect Hagia Sophia. Hagia Sophia, which had been converted from a basilica into a mosque with the conquest of Istanbul and then into a museum with the Decree of the Council of Ministers published in 1934, was reconverted in 2020 into a mosque with Presidential Decree No. 2729 and left open for worship. This study discusses the image of Hagia Sophia in modern Arabic poetry and examines the architectural features of Hagia Sophia, the conquest of Istanbul by Fatih Sultan Mehmet and its conversion into a mosque, the elegies written for Hagia Sophia during World War I, and Hagia Sophia’s status changes.
Yazar isimleri: ['Abdelkarim AMIN MOHAMED SOLIMAN', 'Senem CEYLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Şarkiyat Mecmuası
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iusarkiyat/issue/73344/1161965
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2596136
