Makale Başlığı: Examination of Communication Skills in Religious Services in Terms of Some Variables: Sample of Presidency of Religious Affairs Personnel
Özet: The aim of this study is to measure the communication skills of the Presidency of Religious Affairs personnel working in different positions assuming different titles within the institution. The sample of the research was carried out with employees (n=345) of various positions such as mufti, deputy mufti, head of department, preacher, inspector, data control operator, Qur'an course instructor, imam, muadhdhin and officer working in the Presidency of Religious Affairs. In this empirical study, the communication skills inventory developed by Ersanlı & Balcı (1998) was used as a tool to measure the communication skills of the personnel of various titles. Participants who use social media and want to support on-line research completed the questionnaire through an on-line platform. The obtained data were analyzed with SPSS 22 statistical program. As a result of statistical analyzes using Independent t-test, one-way Anova and descriptive analysis, data on independent variables such as 'marital status, family income, hafiz status, personnel cadre type in the organization and occupational status' were excluded from the evaluation because there wasn’t statistically significant relationship and difference. The meaningful data obtained for the independent variables of 'gender and educational status' regarding the socio-demographic characteristics of the participants were associated with the Communication Skills Inventory. The age of the participants, the place where they spent most of their life, and the 'professional seniority' variables weren’t included in the table because there wasn’t any significant difference in their communication skills. According to the results; it was concluded that the personnel of the institution generally have medium level for communication skills. It was observed that socio-demographic variables other than gender and educational status, among the variables in question, did not cause a significant difference in communication skills of the personnel of the institution participating in the research. The absence of significant differentiation depending on the variables is a positive situation for the personnel of the institution. According to the gender variable, it was observed that the communication skill levels for the male personnel did not differ in terms of mental and emotional scale sub-dimensions, but higher than the female personnel according to the behavioral sub-dimension. Similarly, according to the results of the communication skill scale total score obtained from the post-hoc test, it was found that the communication skill levels for the institution personnel who received postgraduate education were higher than those of the associate and undergraduate who constitute the majority of the institution personnel.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mustafa MEMİŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Türk Din Psikolojisi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/tdpd/issue/70822/1082429
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2288269
