Makale Başlığı: Diyarbakir Armenian Music from a Cultural Perspective
Özet: Despite the many diasporas and changes that took place throughout history, the Armenian community of Diyarbakır has brought its cultural richness to the present day. Along with the Ottoman period, Armenians took the Turkish culture as an example in terms of customs, traditions, literature and music by maintaining cultural association with the Turks in many settlements of Anatolia. Diyarbakır, where many civilizations were hosted, has provided the Armenian community with the opportunity to live together with the community living there. Armenian society and Diyarbakır puplic, through establishing close relations with each other in the process, influenced each other in the field of music as well as in many other subjects and caused the emergence of a rich music culture. The study, that was created in the light of the data obtained from the interviews with the Armenian community music people in the literature review and field research, includes findings that the interaction of music practices specific to the Armenian community living in Diyarbakır with Turkish music from a cultural perspective, and the works performed mainly love, lament, maya, hoyrat consists of themes such as long weather and folk dances. Music, which is the largest interaction of art, reflects the feeling of having the musical culture of the societies living in this geography for ages. The musical dynamics of the Armenian community living in Diyarbakır appear in an uncommon language. The main reason for the verbal variations in the folk songs performed here is that two different societies speak two different languages. The style of music that is open to interpretation and the richness of meaning are expressed in different languages with the same artistic perspective. In the research, the musical element, which is one of the important building blocks of societies, has been described in the cultural perspective with the traces it left in the sociological structure, specifically for the Armenians of Diyarbakır.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehmet Emin ŞEN', 'Bilal KAPLAN']
Yayın Yılı: 5 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: İnönü Üniversitesi Sanat ve Tasarım Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/iujad/issue/71213/1114687
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2419751
