Makale Başlığı: Two Taxonomies That Can Be Used in Generating Questions in Turkish Lessons: Comparative Review of Bloom and Barrett Taxonomy
Özet: The main purpose of teaching Turkish is to provide the students gain and develop comprehension and expression skills. Questions that are a part of assessment and evaluation in education are one of the most important tools to check whether this basic purpose has been achieved. Apart from being a control mechanism, the studies show that questions that encourage cognitive processes at different levels are effective in improving comprehension skills. On the other hand, the national literature review shows that the questions prepared in comprehension skills accumulate more at the basic level in terms of the cognitive processes demanded. At this point, taxonomies emerge as basic resources that can guide educators in generating effective questions. This study aims to provide the readers with basic information about the Bloom and Barrett taxonomy and their development processes and to guide those who want to benefit from these taxonomies while generating questions. In this review article, the emergence and development processes of the Bloom and Barrett taxonomy, the category definitions of these taxonomies, and the opportunities and limitations they offer to users are mentioned. In the study, the categories of both taxonomies were examined comparatively. Thus, it is aimed to embody the Barrett taxonomy, which is not as common, in the minds of the reader, based on the Bloom taxonomy, which is more widely used in different levels and disciplines of education. Since the main purpose of Barrett taxonomy is to classify reading comprehension skills, it is thought that this situation will be beneficial for researchers and practitioners in the field of Turkish teaching.
Yazar isimleri: ['Duygu YÜCEER']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Okuma Yazma Eğitimi Araştırmaları
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/oyea/issue/70811/1110666
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2404080
