Makale Başlığı: The Views of Urology Doctors in Turkey Towards Regional Anaesthesia
Özet: Despite regional anaesthesia (RA) being the most appropriate anaesthesia method in several surgeries, primarily urology surgery, it is not widely practised by anaesthetists. We aimed to research the knowledge, opinions and attitudes of urologists towards regional anaesthesia(RA)A questionnaire consisting of 29 questions to be answered with Likert type answers was applied face to face to urology specialists and assistants in hospitals in the center of Ankara. By stating the preferred anaesthesia method it was aimed to evaluate the knowledge and opinions of urologists to RA. A total of 152 urology assistants or specialists were included in the study. The source of the knowledge related to RA was determined as from experience during specialist training in 38%, from observation and learning from anaesthetists when working together in 25% and from medical faculty education in 25%. The most common reasons for selecting RA were determined as a better state of consciousness in the patient compared to general anaesthesia (92.8%), that it is a safe anaesthesia method (86.2%), lower rates of postoperative nausea and vomiting (73.7%) and greater patient satisfaction (73%). Reasons for not selecting RA were determined as the risk of complications developing associated with unwanted movements of the patient (45.4%) and that the patient can follow their own endovision monitor and hear the doctors talking amongst themselves, as they are conscious during surgery (40.8%). The results of this study showed that the majority of urologists knew the advantages of RA and supported the use of RA in appropriate operations. The disadvantages of the RA can be eliminated with anaesthesia applications such as sedation or nerve blockage additional to RA. Periodic training sessions between clinics and meetings may be useful both in terms of updating information and in reducing negative opinions of RA. Inter-clinical meetings and periodic training can be beneficial both in terms of updating information and reducing negative opinions about RA.
Yazar isimleri: ['Yeşim Şerife BAYRAKTAR', 'Ahmet Murat BAYRAKTAR', 'Nazmiye Ayfer YILMAZ', 'Bahar SAKIZCI UYAR', 'Dilşen ÖRNEK', 'Nermin GÖĞÜŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 29 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Genel Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/geneltip/issue/73146/1182640
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2681560
