Makale Başlığı: 18TH CENTURY TURKISH DIVAN POET AHMED BÂ'IS AND HIS POEMS
Özet: Although the 18th century was a century in which the Ottoman Empire weakened and lost power in terms of politics, many poets grew up with the support of dignitaries. Many Divan poets were trained in the Ottoman field; some of them were well-known poets, and their fame spread in many countries from east to west. Some of the poets have not been studied in detail on their poems, which were overshadowed by our well-known poets. In this study, the life and divan of Kasapbaşızâde Ahmed Bâis Efendi, one of our less famous poets, has been examined and prepared for this publication.  Only a graduation thesis was prepared about Ahmet Bâis Efendi in 1953. In our study, the revised text of the divan was prepared and examined by making use of this thesis. There is not enough information about Ahmet Bâ’is Efendi's life. Bâ’is lived in the 18th century. The poet might have taken the pseudonym Bâ'is with the desire to be a good cause throughout his life. As can be understood from the expression of Kasapbaşızade Ahmed Efendi, he comes from a family that worked as a butcher. He was born in Mihalıç/Karacabey district of Bursa, completed his education in Istanbul, worked as a professor in different madrasahs and also worked as a clerk. He died in 1800-1801, and his grave is in Kahramanmaraş. The only copy of Bâ'is Divançe, written by the author in ta’lik script, is in the Rare Works Library of Istanbul University. When we evaluate the poems of Bâ'is in his divan, which is his only work, in terms of form and content, we can say that the poet wrote poems in accordance with the sebk-i Irâki style used before the sebk-i Hindi period , which contains certain rules and mazmuns.
Yazar isimleri: ['Bilge KAYA YİĞİT']
Yayın Yılı: 25 Haziran 2022
Dergi ismi: Ankara Üniversitesi Dil ve Tarih-Coğrafya Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/dtcfdergisi/issue/70281/990961
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1956708
